=== PAGE 1 ===
Br J Dermatol 2026; 194:e56–e73
https://doi.org/10.1093/bjd/ljaf452
Advance access publication date: 14 November 2025
Guidelines
Accepted: 8 November 2025
© British Association of Dermatologists 2025. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation 
rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for 
further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
British Association of Dermatologists living guideline for 
managing people with alopecia areata 2025
Matthew J Harries ,1,2 Alia Ahmed,3 Anna Ascott ,4 Kashif Bhatti,5 Joseph Earley,6 
Paul Farrant ,4 Susan Holmes ,7,8 Amy Johnson,6,9 Abby E Macbeth ,10 
Andrew G Messenger  ,11 Julian Pearce ,12 Anita Takwale ,13 Andrew R Thompson ,14,15 
Maria Hashme ,16 M Firouz Mohd Mustapa
16 and Alina M Constantin
16; on behalf of the 
British Association of Dermatologists’ Clinical Standards Unit
1Salford Royal Hospital, Northern Care Alliance NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK
2Centre for Dermatology Research, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester & NIHR Biomedical Research 
Centre, Manchester, UK
3Royal London Hospital, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, UK
4University Hospitals Sussex NHS Foundation Trust, Sussex, UK
5Mid Yorkshire Teaching NHS Trust, Wakefield, UK
6Patient representative
7NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Glasgow, UK
8University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK
9Alopecia UK, Shipley, UK
10Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals NHS Trust, Norwich, UK
11University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK
12St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK
13Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Gloucester, UK
14Cardiff & The Vale University Health Board and School of Psychology, University of Cardiff, Cardiff, UK
15British Psychological Society, Leicester, UK
16British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, London, UK
Correspondence: Matthew Harries. Emails: matthew.harries@nca.nhs.uk; guidelines@bad.org.uk
Lay summary
Alopecia areata (AA) is a long-term condition that can occur in both children and adults. AA can appear as patches of baldness on the 
scalp. Sometimes, nail growth is also affected. Hair on other parts of the body may also fall out, such as the beard, eyebrows and eye­
lashes.
Alopecia totalis is the name for total loss of scalp hair. Alopecia universalis is complete loss of scalp, facial and body hair.
This is the second version of the guideline. The British Association of Dermatologists gathered a group of experts in managing people 
of all ages with AA. The group consisted of eight consultant dermatologists, one dermatology specialist registrar, one general practitio­
ner, one psychologist, two people with AA and a team with expertise in preparing guidelines. This group of experts reviewed relevant 
studies published until 11 July 2025. Using the evidence, the group produced recommendations using rigorous standards for guideline 
development.
The guideline development group produced 56 recommendations for management of people with AA. They also made 9 recommen­
dations for future research and suggested 11 audit points for hospitals.
Based on the guideline, a patient information leaflet is also available on the British Association of Dermatologists’ website (https://
www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/condition/alopecia-areata).
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
e57
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
Produced in 2025 by the British Association of 
Dermatologists
The full history of this guideline can be accessed here: 
https://view.genially.com/693ac72b062a08485fcf43a0
This is a living guideline prepared for the British Association 
of Dermatologists (BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which 
includes the Therapy & Guidelines subcommittee. Members 
of the Clinical Standards Unit who have been involved are 
S.L. Chua (Chair, Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee), L. 
Asfour, R. Ramessur, H. Wainman, M. Hashme (Information 
Scientist), A.M. Constantin (Guideline Research Fellow) and 
M.F. Mohd Mustapa (Director of Clinical Standards).
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) 
accredited the BAD’s clinical guideline development process 
as a mark of quality between 2010 and 2024, until NICE 
closed its programme in 2024. The 2024, baseline iteration 
of this living guideline was NICE accredited.
As the NICE accreditation criteria were already largely 
aligned with the AGREE II instrument and the international 
gold-standard GRADE methodology for developing clinical 
guidelines, the BAD shall commit to observing the principles 
of the NICE Accreditation Programme, while also continuing 
to review its guideline development processes to meet the 
methodological requirements for living ­guidelines.
Accessibility (version) map
https://view.genially.com/689a079e8cb77008ef836979.
What is new, what has changed in this second, living 
iteration?
1.0 Purpose and scope
This is the second iteration (first update) of the British 
Association of Dermatologists living guideline for managing 
people with alopecia areata (AA) and therefore replaces the 
previous iteration. The baseline iteration of this living guide­
line1 was published online in October 2024 in the British 
Journal of Dermatology.
The overall objective of this living guideline with a 
fixed-interval schedule (i.e. literature surveillance fre­
quency ≤ 6 months, with a living guideline updating cycle 
of 12 months) is to provide up-to-date, evidence-based 
recommendations for the management of AA in children 
(0–12 years of age), young people (13–17 years of age) and 
adults (≥ 18 years of age).
The document aims to:
•	 offer an appraisal of all relevant literature up to 11 July 
2025, focusing on any key developments
•	 address important, practical clinical questions relating to 
the primary guideline objective
•	 provide guideline recommendations and, if appropriate, 
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high­
lighted recommendations for practical use in all appropriate 
community and hospital settings (see Section 3.0), in addi­
tion to a patient information leaflet (available on the BAD 
website: https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/condition/alo­
pecia-areata).
Guideline Development Group members involved in 
the baseline iteration (2024) who have stood down
Leila Asfour, Gordon Hale, Victoria M.L. Jolliffe, Ahmed Kazmi, Ali Noor, Lina Manounah
New members who have joined the Guideline 
Development Group for the second iteration (2025) 
of this living guideline
Alia Ahmed, Kashif Bhatti, Joseph Earley, Julian Pearce
Living systematic review protocol
The protocol has been updated, including with the addition of three new outcomes, i.e. 
Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT) score 0 (9), SALT score ≤ 10 (8) and SALT score ≤ 20 (7)
Literature surveillance dates
Literature surveillance was carried out on 6 February 2025, 15 May 2025 and 11 July 2025. 
The first literature search captured records published during the time interval 19 October 
2023 to 6 February 2025, the second literature search captured records published during 
the time interval 6 February 2025 to 15 May 2025 and the third literature search captured 
records published during the time interval 15 May 2025 to 11 July 2025
Literature search strategy
Updated to reflect date limitations
New evidence
Supporting Information document has been updated to reflect the evidence captured 
during literature surveillance
Sections 1.0 Purpose and scope, 2.0 Methodology 
and 2.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
Updated to reflect the employment of the living guideline methodology and the three 
outcome additions
Unchanged recommendations
R2–R4, R6–R8, R12–R16, R18–R23, R25–R28, R30–R35, R37–R40, R47, R49–R53, R55
Amended recommendations
R1, R5, R9, R10, R17, R24, R29, R36, R41, R54, R56
New recommendations
R11, R42–R46, R48
Amended Future Research Recommendation (FRR)
FRR1
New FRRs
FRR2, FRR7
Section 6.0 Diagnosis and investigations
Updated from the baseline iteration
Section 7.0 Management
Updated from the baseline iteration
Patient values and preferences
Updated from the baseline iteration
Declarations of interests
Updated from the baseline iteration
Accessibility (version) map
In alignment with the living guidelines methodology, the 2025 iteration of the alopecia 
areata guideline features an interactive ‘accessibility (version) map’ (https://view.genially.
com/689a079e8cb77008ef836979), which details the changes (in wording and location) 
in the recommendations from the 2024 version of the alopecia areata guideline to the 
2025 iteration
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
e58
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
2.0 Methodology
This guideline has been developed using the BAD’s rec­
ommended methodology,2 in addition to the living guide­
line methodology.3 Further information can be found in 
Appendix K (see Supporting Information) with reference 
to the AGREE II instrument (www.agreetrust.org)4 and 
GRADE5 (Appendices D and K; see Supporting Information). 
While the recommendations were developed for anticipated 
implementation in the UK National Health Service (NHS), 
they could equally be adapted in other healthcare systems, 
internationally, acknowledging different countries’ health 
systems, including their priorities, legislation, drug availabil­
ities, funding and policies.
The guideline development group (GDG) consisted of 
eight consultant dermatologists (MJH, A Ahmed, PF, SH, 
AEM, AGM, JP, AT), one dermatology specialist registrar (A 
Ascott), one general practitioner (KB), one consultant clini­
cal psychologist (ART), two patient representatives (JE, AJ) 
and a technical team consisting of one information scientist 
(MH), one guideline research fellow (AMC) and a project 
manager (MFMM) providing methodological and technical 
support.
The GDG established one systematic review question 
pertinent to the scope of the guideline and a set of outcome 
measures of importance to patients, ranked according to the 
GRADE methodology6 (Section 2.1; and Appendix A; see 
Supporting Information).
A systematic literature search of the MEDLINE, Embase 
and Cochrane databases was conducted by the tech­
nical team to identify key articles pertaining to AA up to 
11 July 2025; the search terms and the search strategies 
are detailed in Appendix L (see Supporting Information). 
Additional references relevant to the topic were also identi­
fied from citations in the reviewed literature. Data extraction 
and critical appraisal, data synthesis, evidence summaries, 
lists of excluded studies and the PRISMA flow diagram 
were prepared by the technical team. The overall certainty 
of evidence from the studies included in the quantitative 
review was graded according to the GRADE system (high, 
moderate, low or very low certainty).
In making the recommendations, all GDG members have 
evaluated the entire dataset obtained from the living system­
atic review of the literature pertaining to the clinical question 
of interest (Section 2.1).
The recommendations included in the baseline iteration 
of the guideline were updated during iterative discussions 
with the entire GDG, including people with lived experi­
ence of AA, considering changes in the certainty of the evi­
dence from the previous iteration and all the other factors 
that would affect the strength of the evidence according 
to the GRADE approach (i.e. balance between desirable 
and undesirable effects, quality of evidence, patient values 
and preferences and resource allocation). All GDG mem­
bers contributed towards drafting and/or reviewing the 
narratives and information in the guideline and appendices 
in the Supporting Information. When insufficient evidence 
from the literature was available, informal consensus was 
reached based on the experience of the GDG.
The summary of findings with forest plots (Appendix 
B), tables Linking the Evidence To the Recommendations 
(LETR) (Appendix C), GRADE evidence profiles indicating 
the certainty of the evidence (Appendix D), summary of 
comparative studies included in the quantitative and qual­
itative synthesis (Appendix E), summary of included with­
in-patient studies (Appendix F), narrative findings from 
noncomparative studies (Appendix G), PRISMA flow dia­
gram (Appendix H), risk-of-bias analysis (Appendix I) and 
the list of excluded studies (Appendix J) are detailed in the 
Supporting Information.
The strength of recommendation is expressed by the 
wording and symbols shown in Table 1.
Applicability of the recommendations to clinical practice 
is outlined in Sections 4.0 and 7.0. A ‘patient values and 
Table 1  The strength of the recommendations’ ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbols
Definition
Strong 
recommendation for 
the use of an 
intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, 
e.g. ‘use’, 
‘provide’, ‘take’, 
‘investigate’)
↑↑
Benefits of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients would choose the 
intervention while only a small proportion would not; for clinicians, most of their 
patients would receive the intervention; for policymakers, it would be a useful 
performance indicator
Strong 
recommendation for 
the use of an 
intervention with an 
asterisk (*)
‘Offer*’ (or 
similar, as above)
↑↑
The recommendation is supported by lower-certainty evidence, where the risks and 
benefits of an intervention are finely balanced. However, based on the Guideline 
Development Group’s specialist experience and consensus, the otherwise weak 
recommendation has been upgraded, and the appropriate wording for a strong 
recommendation is used and marked with an asterisk to denote the difference. The 
asterisk signifies a recommendation based also on expert consensus, and not 
exclusively on the evidence
Weak 
recommendation for 
the use of an 
intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and benefits of the intervention are finely balanced; most patients would choose 
the intervention, but many would not; clinicians would need to consider the pros and 
cons for the patient in the context of the evidence; for policymakers it would be a poor 
performance indicator where variability in practice is expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufficient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong 
recommendation 
against the use of 
an intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the benefits; most patients would not choose the 
intervention while only a small proportion would; for clinicians, most of their patients 
would not receive the intervention
Good practice point
‘Offer’ (or similar, 
as above), 
‘consider’
GPP
Recommendations are derived from informal consensus based on the Guideline 
Development Group’s specialist experience, when there is no published evidence 
available
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
e59
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
preferences’ section and further discussion of the included 
evidence, treatment options, practical and economic consid­
erations and service provision are also featured in the LETR 
narrative (Appendix C).
2.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established a systematic review question perti­
nent to the scope of the guideline. See Appendix A for the 
full living systematic review protocol.
The GDG also established a set of outcome measures of 
importance to people with AA, which were agreed by the 
patient representatives and ranked according to the GRADE 
methodology.6 Outcomes ranked 7, 8 or 9 are critical for 
decision making; those ranked 4, 5 or 6 are important, but 
not critical for decision making; and those ranked 1, 2 or 3 
are less important for decision making.
Systematic review question: In people with AA what 
are the clinical effectiveness and safety of interventions 
compared with each other, placebo or no treatment?
Outcomes
Critical
•	 Improvement in quality of life and psychological well­
being (anxiety†/depression) (9)
•	 Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT) score 0 (9)
•	 SALT score ≤ 10 (8)
•	 Improvement in hair regrowth from baseline 
(e.g. ≥ 75%)§ (8)
•	 Improvement in facial (i.e. eyelash, eyebrow, beard) 
hair regrowth from baseline (8)
•	 Serious adverse effects (i.e. grade 3–4 adverse events, 
investigator defined) (8)
•	 Long-term sustainability of hair regrowth (8)
•	 SALT score ≤ 20 (7)
Important
•	 Patient’s self-assessment (6)
•	 Disease-specific physician’s assessment (6)
•	 Improvement in hair regrowth from baseline (e.g. ≥ 50%) (6)
•	 Physician’s Global Assessment (6)
•	 Minor adverse effects (i.e. grade 1–2 adverse events) (5)
Less important
•	 Improvement in hair regrowth from baseline 
(e.g. ≥ 25%) (3)
†Where reported, data on social anxiety are to be extracted 
additionally and separately.
§Where reported, data on 90–100% improvement of hair 
regrowth from baseline are to be extracted additionally and 
separately.
3.0 Summary of recommendations
The GDG set out to provide an up-to-date and evi­
dence-based approach to optimize the management ­
of people with AA, factoring in patient values and 
­preferences.
The following recommendations and ratings were agreed 
upon unanimously by all members of the GDG, including 
patient representatives. For further information on the word­
ing used for recommendations and strength of recommen­
dation ratings, see Section 2.0. The GDG is aware of the lack 
of high-certainty evidence for some of these recommenda­
tions; therefore, strong recommendations with an asterisk 
(*) are based on the available evidence, as well as consen­
sus and specialist experience. Good practice point (GPP) 
recommendations are derived from informal consensus.
The GDG considered the evidence and provided recom­
mendations in the context of clinical practice within the UK’s 
NHS. However, the GDG acknowledged that some recom­
mended interventions may not be widely available. The evi­
dence for recommendations is based on the studies listed. 
For further details please refer to the discussion in the LETR 
(Appendix C).
All recommendations that employ the term ‘people’ refer 
to adults, children and young people. The terms ‘male’, 
‘female’, ‘men’ and ‘women’ used throughout the guideline 
refer to the sex assigned at birth.
The AA severity definitions used in this living guideline are 
based primarily on the extent of scalp hair loss, with lim­
ited (mild) hair loss representing 1–20% scalp involvement, 
moderate hair loss representing 21–49% scalp involvement 
and severe hair loss representing 50–100% scalp involve­
ment.7 However, the grade of severity should be increased 
if additional clinical features are present (see Section 6.2). 
Rapidly progressive AA is defined here as progressive 
scalp hair loss of sudden onset, associated with increased 
hair fall and generalized positive hair pull test and/or tricho­
scopic features of active disease (e.g. exclamation-mark 
hairs, black dots).8
The definitions of psychological distress used in this living 
guideline should be based on the outcome of clinical assess­
ment and judgement. However, this can be supported by the 
use of mental health patient-reported outcome measures or 
screening tools (Appendix O; see Supporting Information) 
that have psychometrically reliable cutoff points.
General management
R1 (GPP) Undertake a full history for people with AA, includ­
ing the site and type of AA, disease extent, disease stabil­
ity, previous treatment response, age of onset, speed of 
progression, triggering factors, quality of life, psychological 
and psychosocial impact, maximum severity experience and 
personal and family history of other autoimmune diseases.
R2 (GPP) Manage the expectations of people with AA by con­
veying that any therapeutic modality is not always ­effective.
R3 (GPP) Offer all people with AA medical photography9 as 
a baseline record of severity and consider further photogra­
phy if there is a significant change and at the start of a new 
treatment course.
R4 (GPP) Perform the Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT) 
assessment (Appendix N; see Supporting Information) 
­routinely in people with AA with scalp involvement as a 
validated outcome measure to assess treatment response 
over time.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
e60
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
R5 (GPP) Exercise caution when treating people with AA 
with brown and black skin with topical and/or ­intralesional 
corticosteroids and contact immunotherapy, due to the 
increased risk of skin depigmentation with corticosteroid 
treatment and the risk of developing vitiligo, as well as local­
ized skin hyper- or hypopigmentation, with contact immu­
notherapy. These patients need specific counselling prior 
to treatment regarding potential skin pigmentary changes.
R6 (↑↑) Assess* and monitor people’s quality of life and level 
of psychological distress associated with living with AA. 
Brief screening tools that can be used include Patient Health 
Questionnaire-4 (PHQ-4)10 or Patient Health Questionnaire-9 
(PHQ-9),11,12 Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 (GAD7),13 Mood 
and Feelings Questionnaire – short [MFQ(S)]14 and Dermatology 
Life Quality Index (DLQI).15 Disease-specific measures include 
the Alopecia Areata Symptom Impact Scale (AASIS)16 and 
Alopecia Areata Patient Priority Outcome (AAPPO).17
R7 (GPP) Discuss with people with AA the psychosocial 
impact of living with the condition.
R8 (GPP) Provide people with AA, at the time of diagno­
sis, with a patient information leaflet (e.g. https://www.
skinhealthinfo.org.uk/condition/alopecia-areata), actively 
engage them in their treatment management pathway to 
facilitate shared decision making and direct them to appro­
priate patient support organizations (e.g. Alopecia UK).
R9 (GPP) Offer people with moderate-to-severe AA the 
opportunity to participate in a long-term safety registry [e.g. 
the Global Registry of Alopecia areata disease Severity 
and treatment Safety (GRASS)-UK; www.bad.org.uk/
research-journals/research/grass-uk].
R10 (GPP) Refer people with suspected AA to a health­
care professional experienced in managing the condition 
[secondary care specialist or general practitioner with an 
extended role (GPwER)] if:
•	 the condition is severe
•	 the condition is progressing rapidly
•	 there is diagnostic uncertainty
•	 the condition has a significant psychosocial impact
•	 the condition is not responding to topical treatment.
Further advice on referral pathways can be found on 
the British Association of Dermatologists’ website page: 
‘Dermatology Referral Management Guidelines’ (www.
bad.org.uk/referrals), which provides an accessible national 
clinical resource intended to support clinicians in primary, 
community and secondary care services.
R11 (GPP) Consider appropriate diagnostic tests on a case-
by-case basis in people with AA, depending on the patient’s 
history and clinical presentation. Investigations, including 
routine blood sampling, are unnecessary in most cases.
Wigs and other nonpharmacological therapies
R12 (↑↑) Offer wigs (including toppers) to people with AA 
whose quality of life is likely to benefit from their use. Due 
to the lifespan of products, it is suggested that patients are 
offered a minimum of two synthetic wigs or one human hair 
wig (if meeting clinical criteria) per year in accordance with 
the Charter for Best Practice for NHS Wig Provision.18
R13 (GPP) Acknowledge that wigs and other nonpharmaco­
logical therapies can be as significant in improving patient 
quality of life as other treatments.
R14 (GPP) Suggest that people with AA explore other head­
wear and camouflage options, such as hats, scarves, ­turbans, 
makeup, hair fibres, powders and sprays, permanent makeup 
and skin micropigmentation. The national hair loss charity, 
Alopecia UK, has comprehensive information about products 
and services on its website (www.alopecia.org.uk).
Topical corticosteroids
R15 (↑↑) Offer* a potent or very potent topical corticosteroid 
once daily for 3–6 months to people with AA who have 
scalp hair loss, as the first-line treatment in primary or sec­
ondary care.
R16 (↑) Consider a potent or very potent topical corticoster­
oid treatment regimen of 6 weeks’ treatment and 6 weeks’ 
break, followed by a further 6 weeks’ treatment cycle in 
children and young people with scalp AA.
R17 (GPP) Discuss with people with AA the amount of topi­
cal corticosteroids to be used, the preferred formulation, the 
site of application and the safety of a potent or very potent 
topical corticosteroid when used correctly.
R18 (GPP) Reassess the use of topical corticosteroids every 
3–6 months in people with AA, to assess for improvement 
and cutaneous side effects.
Intralesional corticosteroids
R19 (↑↑) Offer* intralesional triamcinolone acetonide (2.5–
10 mg mL−1) as a first-line option to adults with limited 
(mild)-to-moderate AA.
R20 (↑) Consider intralesional triamcinolone acetonide in 
adults with severe AA on a case-by-case basis.
R21 (↑) Consider intralesional triamcinolone aceton­
ide in older children and young people with limited 
(mild)-to-moderate AA on a case-by-case basis.
R22 (↑) Consider intralesional triamcinolone acetonide in 
people with eyebrow or beard alopecia on a case-by-case 
basis.
R23 (GPP) Exercise caution when treating people with AA 
with intralesional corticosteroids due to the risk of local­
ized skin or fat atrophy, particularly when treating cosmeti­
cally sensitive sites or if previous episodes of atrophy have 
occurred.
R24 (GPP) Consider an initial starting concentration of 5 mg 
mL−1 for intralesional triamcinolone acetonide as standard 
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
e61
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
practice in all adults with AA. Adjusted concentrations may 
be required depending on response, treatment site (e.g. 
facial skin) or risk of side effects.
R25 (GPP) Consider a time interval of 6–12 weeks for 
intralesional triamcinolone acetonide injections for peo­
ple with AA and ensure that the injections are evenly 
spaced within the patch and patch margins (i.e. 0.1 mL per 
1 cm2).
R26 (GPP) Consider options (e.g. topical local anaesthetics, 
cold spray or distraction/vibration) to reduce pain when inject­
ing intralesional triamcinolone acetonide in people with AA.
Systemic corticosteroids
R27 (↑) Consider a course of oral corticosteroids (e.g. pred­
nisolone 0.5 mg kg−1 per day tapering over 6–12 weeks) in 
people with rapidly progressive AA. Intravenous methyl­
prednisolone 500 mg daily for 3 days may be an alternative 
to oral corticosteroids in adults, although this treatment is 
not used widely in the UK.
R28 (↑) Consider a course of oral corticosteroids (e.g. pred­
nisolone 0.5 mg kg−1 per day tapering over 6–12 weeks) in 
people with moderate-to-severe AA.
R29 (↑) Consider concurrent topical treatment (e.g. potent 
topical corticosteroid, 5% topical minoxidil) in people with 
moderate-to-severe AA, to reduce the risk of relapse. 
Taper corticosteroid use over 6–12 weeks with the aim of 
maintaining response thereafter with the topical agent.
R30 (↑) Consider concurrent treatment with corticoster­
oid-sparing agents (e.g. azathioprine, methotrexate, ciclo­
sporin) in people with moderate-to-severe AA, to reduce 
the risk of relapse. Taper corticosteroid use over 6–12 weeks 
with the aim of maintaining response thereafter with the 
steroid-sparing agent.
R31 (GPP) Acknowledge that some people treated with 
oral corticosteroids may be unable to maintain a treatment 
response as the dose is reduced or stopped. The side-ef­
fect profile of oral corticosteroids usually precludes longer-
term maintenance therapy, particularly if higher doses are 
required to maintain an effect.
Contact immunotherapy
R32 (↑↑) Offer diphenylcyclopropenone (DPCP), where avail­
able, to people with moderate-to-severe AA.
R33 (↑) Consider ‘home DPCP’ (where available, under hos­
pital guidance) in people with AA who can conduct the pro­
cedure correctly and safely at home, for their easy access 
and convenience.
R34 (↑↑) Use DPCP or squaric acid dibutyl ester (SADBE) as 
a sensitizing agent in people with AA.
R35 (↓↓) Do not use dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) as a sensi­
tizing agent in people with AA due to the risk of mutagenicity.
Light and laser
R36 (↑) Consider topical and oral psoralen plus ultraviolet A 
(PUVA) in people with AA in selected cases depending on 
the risk–benefit ratio. For example, this option may be more 
acceptable in people with brown and black skin who would 
like a localized treatment option, and to avoid the risk of skin 
depigmentation with topical immunotherapy. If used, con­
sider shorter treatment cycles, application to smaller areas 
and a finite treatment duration.
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
light and laser interventions to people with AA:
•	 narrowband ultraviolet B (NB-UVB)
•	 ultraviolet A1 (UVA1)
•	 laser-assisted delivery of topical agents (such as minox­
idil and corticosteroids) with fractioned, ablative CO2 
laser or fractionated nonablative erbium laser
•	 low-level (light) laser therapy (LLLT) devices
•	 pulsed infrared diode laser
•	 photodynamic therapy (PDT)
•	 Nd:YAG laser
•	 excimer lamp
•	 other laser treatments (e.g. 311-nm titanium–sapphire 
laser, nonablative 1550-nm erbium glass fractional laser, 
ablative fractional 2940-nm Er:YAG laser).
Systemic immunosuppression
R37 (↑) Consider ciclosporin, azathioprine or methotrexate as 
monotherapy or in combination with oral corticosteroids as treat­
ment options in people with moderate-to-severe AA, balanc­
ing benefits, risks of adverse effects, and patient risk factors.
R38 (GPP) Consider mycophenolate mofetil in adults with 
moderate-to-severe AA, balancing benefits, risks of 
adverse effects, and patient risk factors.
R39 (GPP) Consider ciclosporin in people with rapidly 
progressive AA for a limited course (i.e. 3–6 months), to 
encourage initial hair regrowth.
Other systemic treatments
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
systemic interventions to people with AA:
•	 inosiplex (isoprinosine or inosine pranobex)
•	 imipramine
•	 apremilast
•	 sulfasalazine
•	 mesalazine
•	 hydroxychloroquine
•	 dimethyl fumarate
•	 etrasimod
•	 ezetimibe/simvastatin.
Janus kinase inhibitors
R40 (↑↑) Offer a licensed oral Janus kinase inhibitor (if avail­
able) to adults with severe AA.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
e62
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
R41 (↑↑) Offer a licensed oral Janus kinase inhibitor (if avail­
able) to children and young people aged ≥ 12 years with 
severe AA.
R42 (↑) Consider discontinuing oral Janus kinase inhibitor 
therapy in children and young people aged ≥ 12 years 
and adults with AA who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit after 36 weeks, as per the summaries of product 
characteristics.19
R43 (↑) Be aware that time to achieve an adequate therapeu­
tic response (i.e. SALT < 20) for oral Janus kinase inhibitors 
will vary from person to person.20
R44 (↑) Consider a longer trial of oral Janus kinase inhibitor 
therapy in children and young people aged ≥ 12 years 
and adults with AA, as some may require a longer course 
to achieve SALT < 20. Evaluation of an adequate response, 
and the decision to continue the treatment in the long 
term, might need to be delayed until after 36 weeks, pos­
sibly up to 18 months, and should be made on a case-by-
case basis.
R45 (GPP) Take into account that, to reduce the risk 
of relapse, treatment with oral Janus kinase inhibi­
tors for children and young people aged ≥ 12 years 
and adults with AA is likely to be needed long term. 
Generally, those achieving SALT ≤ 20 maintain a good 
response on continued treatment over time. Treatment 
cessation, or abrupt dose reduction, may increase the 
risk of relapse.
R46 (GPP) Take into account the ‘Ritlecitinib for alopecia 
areata’ supplementary guidance (https://cdn.bad.org.uk/
uploads/2024/07/01005430/ritlecitinib-for-alopecia-areata-­
supplementary-guidance-26.06.24.pdf) to the NICE 
technology appraisal (TA) guidance21 when prescribing rit­
lecitinib.
R47 (GPP) Discuss the recent drug safety update issued by 
the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency 
(MHRA),22 the ‘black box’ warning by the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA)23 or the safety recommendation 
by the European Medicines Agency (EMA)24 regarding 
increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), serious 
cardiovascular events, cancer and death with Janus kinase 
inhibitors. These drugs should be prescribed with caution 
in anyone aged > 65 years or with risk factors for these 
­conditions.
R48 (GPP) Highlight to patients that the longer-term 
safety profile of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors in chil­
dren, young people and adults with AA is currently 
unknown, particularly considering that most people suc­
cessfully treated with these agents will need to remain 
on therapy for many years. JAK inhibitors are subject 
to enhanced safety reporting, and enrolment in pro­
spective, real-world data collection is encouraged (see 
Section 7.2).
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend topical Janus 
kinase inhibitors to people with AA.
Biologics
R49 (↓↓) Do not offer efalizumab to people with AA, as the 
evidence shows that it is ineffective in this population and 
the risk of adverse events may exceed any potential benefit.
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
biologic interventions to people with AA:
•	 ustekinumab
•	 secukinumab
•	 abatacept
•	 intramuscular alefacept
•	 tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitors
•	 low-dose anti-interleukin-2
•	 dupilumab.
Other topical treatments
R50 (↑) Consider topical dithranol (if available) as a ­treatment 
option in people with AA, especially in children and young 
people or those with lack of access to DPCP. Advise 
patients about the staining properties of ­dithranol, which 
can affect scalp hair, fabric and other materials.
R51 (GPP) Consider topical prostaglandin analogues (appli­
cation only on the upper eyelid margin) in adults with eye­
lash alopecia when some hair presence or signs of hair 
regrowth exists. These agents are probably ineffective at 
restoring growth where hair has been fully lost. Counsel 
patients regarding the risk of permanent increased pigmen­
tation of the iris.
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
topical interventions to people with AA:
•	 calcineurin inhibitors
•	 calcipotriol
•	 ciclosporin
•	 azelaic acid
•	 methotrexate 1% gel
•	 tretinoin
•	 prostaglandin analogues for scalp alopecia
•	 dithranol in combination with contact immunotherapy
•	 dithranol in combination with salicylic acid and coal tar
•	 mechlorethamine hydrochloride (nitrogen mustard)
•	 diclofenac sodium
•	 liquid phenol
•	 5-fluorouracil
•	 sildenafil.
Minoxidil
R52 (GPP) Consider topical or oral minoxidil in people with 
AA as an adjuvant to other treatment modalities, as it can 
improve hair density and may reduce the possibility of 
relapse.
Psychological
R53 (↑↑) Offer* information on self-help and patient sup­
port (e.g. leaflets, books, websites, apps) to people with 
mild psychological distress. General recommendations on 
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
e63
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
treatment and management of low mood are available in 
NICE guidelines NG22225 and NG134.26
R54 (↑↑) Offer* referral for formal psychological interven­
tion [including individual or group cognitive behavioural 
therapy (CBT) and specialized forms of CBT that include 
mindfulness] to people experiencing moderate-to-se­
vere psychological distress. For adults, consider directing 
to NHS Talking Therapies. For children and young people, 
consider directing to Children and Young People Mental 
Health Services.
R55 (↑↑) Offer* the use of psychotropic medication (under 
the supervision of a suitably trained clinician) or/and referral 
for more intensive forms of psychological therapy or psychi­
atric intervention, for more severe psychological distress.
R56 (GPP) When indicated, formally assess for potential 
self-harm in people with AA. Recommendations on assess­
ment, management and preventing recurrence of self-harm 
are available on the NHS England e-learning platform and 
NICE guideline NG225.27
Other nonsteroid injectable therapies
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
injectable interventions to people with AA:
•	 platelet-rich plasma (PRP)
•	 microneedling
•	 carboxytherapy
•	 cryotherapy
•	 intralesional pentoxifylline
•	 intralesional methotrexate
•	 intralesional vitamin D
•	 mesenchymal stem cells
•	 intralesional interferon alfa
•	 intradermal minoxidil.
Alternative therapy
ϴ There is insufficient evidence to recommend the following 
alternative interventions to people with AA:
•	 aromatherapy
•	 allium/onion ointment
•	 ginseng
•	 peony
•	 glycyrrhizin
•	 combined complementary therapies (herbal, nettle, 
­dandelion)
•	 poison primrose (Primula obconica)
•	 herbal sensitizers
•	 candida antigen
•	 squill lotion
•	 hypnosis.
Future research recommendations
The following list outlines future research recommendations 
(FRRs).
FRR1 Randomized controlled trials to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of oral Janus kinase inhibitors compared with 
each other and/or commonly used interventions in people 
with AA.
FRR2 Clinical trials investigating planned withdrawal, or 
maintenance therapy, for oral Janus kinase inhibitors in peo­
ple with AA.
FRR3 Clinical trials evaluating investigational medicinal 
products (IMPs) in people with AA should also report on 
psychological outcomes, using appropriate measurement 
scales for AA.
FRR4 Development of an international core outcome set for 
AA clinical trials to permit data comparison and meta-anal­
yses.
FRR5 Study the minimal clinically important difference 
(MCID) for existing disease-specific tools for AA.
FRR6 Clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of psy­
chological interventions and/or therapy in reducing distress 
associated with AA.
FRR7 Investigation of the effectiveness of camouflage tech­
niques to reduce psychological distress in people with AA.
FRR8 Development of biomarkers and other patient stratifi­
cation tools to better predict prognosis and inform treatment 
choices for people with AA.
FRR9 Identify the most suitable health utility tool for assess­
ment of treatments for managing people with AA.
4.0 Algorithm
The recommendations, discussions in the LETR (Appendix 
C) and consensus specialist experience were used to inform 
the algorithm/pathway of care (Figure 1).
5.0 Background
AA is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the hair 
follicles and sometimes the nails. It usually presents with 
patchy scalp hair loss, which can extend to involve the entire 
scalp, but any hair-bearing skin may be involved, including 
facial and body hair. Total loss of scalp hair is called alopecia 
totalis (AT) and complete loss of scalp, facial and body hair 
is called alopecia universalis (AU). The affected skin may 
be slightly reddened, but usually appears normal. Short 
broken hairs (exclamation-mark hairs) are frequently seen 
around the margins of expanding patches of AA on trichos­
copy (dermoscopy). The nails are involved in about 10% of 
patients referred for specialist advice.28 A recent UK-based 
epidemiology study estimated the point prevalence, in 2018, 
of adults with AA as 0.58% and the peak age of onset as 
25–29 years for both male and female patients. Patients of 
Asian, Black and mixed ethnicity are more likely to present 
with AA, especially those of Asian descent.29
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
e64
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
5.1 Prognosis
The most important prognostic indicators for AA are dis­
ease severity and age at initial presentation, with extensive 
disease and younger age of onset predicting a poorer out­
come.30 These factors are demonstrated in an Italian study 
of 191 patients with AA seen in clinic between 1983 and 
1990 who were contacted by telephone 16–23 years later 
and self-reported their clinical status.31 Patients with mild 
disease (< 20% scalp area affected) at presentation were 
more likely to report being disease free at follow-up (68% 
of cases). However, there was a significant tendency for 
AA to worsen over time, with 19% of those originally seen 
with mild-to-moderate disease (< 50% scalp area affected) 
Figure 1  Management pathway for people with alopecia areata (AA). CYP, children and young people; NHS, National Health Service; PIL, patient 
information leaflet; QoL, quality of life; SALT, Severity of Alopecia Tool.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
e65
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
progressing to AT/AU at follow-up, 93% with AU still having 
extensive disease (AT/AU) at follow-up, and only 3% origi­
nally with extensive disease (AT/AU) being disease free at 
follow-up.31 Thus, a tendency to progressive disease, and 
episodes of disease relapse, are common in this condi­
tion.32–34
Hair follicles are preserved in AA; therefore the potential 
for recovery of hair growth is maintained, although recovery 
rates may diminish in long-standing disease. Other factors 
that may affect prognosis include the AA subtype, positive 
family history and nail disease. The ophiasis subtype (where 
alopecia affects the hair margins) confers a poorer progno­
sis and may be less responsive to treatment; however, the 
recently described ‘acute diffuse and total alopecia’ subtype 
may have a more favourable prognosis.35 The presence of 
atopy has also been shown to be associated with treatment 
resistance in patients with patchy AA.34
5.2 Aetiology
The exact pathogenesis of AA is unknown. However, AA 
is considered a chronic T-cell-mediated inflammatory dis­
order where loss of hair follicle immune privilege, infiltra­
tion of proinflammatory cytokine-secreting T cells around 
the hair follicle bulb, and premature catagen induction are 
key features in active disease and necessary for hair loss 
development.36 Genetic predisposition and (as yet unidenti­
fied) environmental factors may also be relevant in disease 
pathogenesis.37,38
5.2.1 Genetic factors and autoimmune associations
Genetic predisposition seems to be one of the main determi­
nants for developing AA, with about 20% of people having 
a family history of the disease.39 Genome-wide association 
studies have confirmed the link with major histocompat­
ibility complex (MHC) genes and other genes involved in 
regulating innate and adaptive immunity, with several of the 
identified AA susceptibility loci also prevalent in other auto­
immune diseases.38 The human leucocyte antigen (HLA) 
class II gene products DR4, DR5, DQ3, DQ7 and DPW4 
have been strongly associated with AA susceptibility, with 
HLA-DR on chromosome 6 showing the greatest risk of 
disease development.40 CD4+ and CD8+ T cells have a key 
role in AA pathogenesis and have been linked to these HLA 
class II genes.40
There are several other pathways that have been impli­
cated in AA pathogenesis, including genes encoding ­natural 
killer cell receptor D (NKG2D) ligands [such as MHC class I 
polypeptide-related sequence A (MICA) and UL16-binding 
protein (ULBP)], which act as ‘danger signals’ in the hair 
follicle;41 downstream effectors of the Janus kinase (JAK) 
pathway;41 T regulatory cell (Treg) pathways;40 and mela­
nin-concentrating hormone signalling pathways.42,43
5.2.2 Hair follicle immune privilege collapse
The lower portion of the normal hair follicle demonstrates 
immune privilege (a complex array of mechanisms that 
restrict antigen presentation from these cells),44 meaning 
hair follicles are protected from immune surveillance by auto­
reactive T cells. In AA, CD8+ T cells and NKG2D+ cells tar­
get anagen hair follicles with disrupted immune privilege.45 
Increased interferon (IFN)-γ responses and upregulation of 
several common γ-chain (γc) cytokines, including interleukin 
(IL)-2, IL-7, IL-15 and IL-21, promote recruitment, activation 
and survival of IFN-γ-producing CD8+ NKG2D+ T cells. This 
results in immune privilege collapse,46 hair follicle dystrophy 
and premature entry of hairs into catagen phase, leading to 
the development of hair loss.36,47
5.2.3 Environmental factors
Emotional stress is an often cited cause of AA based on 
patient-reported triggers, along with biological changes 
seen in mouse models and human ex vivo hair follicle cul­
ture studies.48–50 Other potential environmental stressors 
that may be implicated in AA include infections,51 vaccina­
tions, hormone fluctuations and diet, although their precise 
roles are uncertain.37 Several studies have suggested a 
correlation between AA severity and vitamin D deficiency; 
however, the role of vitamin D in AA pathogenesis remains 
unclear.52,53 Gut microbiota has been shown to have a key 
role in influencing various inflammatory and autoimmune 
diseases,54 with gut dysbiosis being a potential additional 
factor in AA.55
5.3 Comorbidities
5.3.1 Atopic and autoimmune associations
AA has been associated with several other autoimmune 
and atopic disorders. A population-based cohort study of 
8051 newly diagnosed patients with AA and 32 204 case-
matched controls in England demonstrated that atopic and 
autoimmune conditions were more prevalent in patients 
with AA than in controls, showing an increased risk of atopic 
dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, autoimmune hypothyroidism, 
systemic lupus erythematosus and vitiligo.56 An earlier age 
is associated with early AA onset.57,58
5.3.2 Anxiety and depression
The emotional and functional impacts of AA are well rec­
ognized, with increased levels of both coexisting and 
new-onset anxiety and depression seen in patients with AA 
compared with controls. Furthermore, having AA is associ­
ated with a greater likelihood of being issued time-off-work 
certificates or being recorded as unemployed.59 A recent 
study suggests a bidirectional association between severe 
depression and AA, indicating that both conditions are 
independent risk factors for the development of the other.60 
Biologically, systemic inflammation may contribute, with 
serum IL-22 and IL-17E levels correlating with symptoms of 
depression.61 Social discrimination and/or stigmatization are 
also likely to contribute.62
5.3.3 Increased cardiovascular risk
Data from recent publications suggest that AA may be asso­
ciated with increased cardiovascular and metabolic risk, with 
stroke and acute cardiac events being seen more frequently, 
particularly in long-standing cases.63–65 The potential cause 
for this is unclear, but chronic inflammation, disease associ­
ations, smoking status and the consequence of treatments 
may play a role. Unfortunately, the published literature shows 
conflicting results,66,67 so further work is needed to better 
understand these potential associations and whether risk 
reduction strategies are specifically needed in this patient 
group.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
e66
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
6.0 Diagnosis and investigations
The diagnosis of AA is usually based on the clinical presenta­
tion and typical examination findings. Trichoscopy can aid diag­
nosis and management of AA, identifying preserved follicular 
ostia and regular yellow dots in areas of hair loss and exclama­
tion-mark hairs and black dots typically seen at the hair loss 
margin when the disease is active. However, the following 
conditions may cause diagnostic difficulties and should be 
considered in the differential diagnosis of patchy AA.68
1.	
Hair-pulling disorder (trichotillomania, trichotillosis)
	
Hair-pulling disorder describes self-inflicted trau­
matic damage to the hairs due to recurrent pulling 
out of hair. It is characterized by irregular patchy loss 
with broken hairs of variable length. In contrast to 
AA, hairs in trichotillomania are firmly attached to the 
scalp and not easily extracted with the hair pull test.
2.	
Tinea capitis
	
Tinea capitis presents as patchy hair loss, particularly 
in children, with features of scalp inflammation and 
surface scale, although these signs may sometimes 
be subtle.
3.	
Early scarring alopecia
	
Trichoscopy is useful in identifying loss of follicular 
ostia, along with other signs such as perifollicular ery­
thema and perifollicular scale seen in scarring alopecia. 
A biopsy may be required to exclude this diagnosis.
4.	
Temporal triangular alopecia
	
This typically presents in childhood with a static, non­
inflammatory triangular or oval patch containing vel­
lus hair located at the frontal hairline; sometimes the 
condition can be bilateral. In contrast with AA, there 
are no yellow dots, black dots or exclamation-mark 
hairs seen in this condition.
Occasionally, AA may present with diffuse hair loss 
associated with increased hair fall, but without the typical 
patches. Further investigation may be necessary, and the 
following differential diagnoses should be considered in this 
presentation:
	1	
telogen effluvium
	2	
anagen effluvium (drug-induced)
	3	
systemic lupus erythematosus
	4	
secondary syphilis (usually patchy and ‘moth eaten’).
For children presenting with complete alopecia within the 
first year of life, clinicians should also consider congenital 
conditions associated with total hair loss that may be clini­
cally indistinguishable from AT/AU, particularly ‘atrichia with 
papular lesions’ and vitamin D-dependent rickets.69
6.1 Investigations
Investigations are unnecessary in most cases of AA.70 If there 
is diagnostic uncertainty (see Section 6.0) appropriate testing 
may include fungal cultures, skin biopsy, diagnostic criteria 
and serology testing for systemic lupus erythematosus, or 
syphilis screening. Investigations for coexisting autoimmune 
conditions should be considered on a case-by-case basis 
depending on the patient history and clinical presentation.
6.1.1 Thyroid disease
An association between AA and autoimmune thyroid dis­
ease has long been recognized,71 but opinions are divided on 
whether routine screening of thyroid function is justified. Two 
meta-analyses of published data have concluded that the 
risk of hypo- and hyperthyroidism is significantly increased 
in AA.72,73 However, a third did not show an association with 
diagnosed or serological hypo- or hyperthyroidism, although 
there was a significant association between AA and the pres­
ence of thyroid autoantibodies, which, in long-term studies, 
has been associated with the later development of overt dis­
ease.74 The risks of thyroid disease and of serological thyroid 
abnormalities appear greater in AT and AU.75,76
The frequency of thyroid disease is greatest in the older 
age groups of people with AA, as it is in the population at 
large, but the risk (vs. that in the age-matched population) 
is greatest in those aged < 20 years.76 In a study of thyroid 
function in 298 children with AA the investigators concluded 
that routine screening in children should be restricted to 
those with a medical history of Down syndrome, a history of 
atopy, a family history of thyroid disease or clinical features 
suggestive of thyroid disease.77 Whether routine thyroid 
screening should be performed in adults is debatable, but 
it may be considered, notably in AT and AU. If performed, 
tests should include thyroid autoantibodies and thyroid-stim­
ulating hormone and recognize that the increased risk of 
thyroid disease in AA is lifelong.
6.1.2 Iron, vitamin D and other nutritional 
deficiencies
Deficiencies of nutrients, including iron, zinc and selenium, 
have been linked with AA. However, these studies are small 
and show conflicting results. Routine testing for iron status 
is not supported by evidence. There are no published stud­
ies demonstrating a treatment response to iron replacement 
therapy.78–81 There have been reports of decreased serum 
levels of vitamin D82 and an inverse correlation with the 
severity of AA,53 while others have not found an association 
between dietary, supplemental or total vitamin D intake and 
incident AA.83 Ultimately, studies are required to assess the 
value of vitamin D supplementation in the treatment of AA.
6.2 Severity of disease
Most recent clinical trials for AA have used the SALT score 
(Appendix N) to categorize the levels of scalp hair loss 
(Alopecia Areata Scale), based on percentage terminal scalp 
hair loss.84,85 Severity criteria are presented in the ‘Alopecia 
Areata Investigator Global Assessment’86 and ‘Scalp Hair 
Assessment PRO’ tools,87 which present severity grada­
tions of scalp alopecia for use in clinical trials. The criteria 
include grade 0 (‘none’; 0% scalp hair loss), grade 1 [‘limited’ 
(mild); 1–20% scalp hair loss], grade 2 (‘moderate’; 21–49% 
scalp hair loss), grade 3 (‘severe’; 50–94% scalp hair loss) 
and grade 4 (‘very severe’; 95–100% scalp hair loss).
This severity classification can be simplified for clinical 
practice by combining the top two severity categories into 
one severity grade (‘severe’) representing 50–100% scalp 
hair loss, as used in this living guideline. Further, validated 
clinician- and patient-reported outcome measures are now 
available to assess eyebrow, eyelash and nail involvement.88
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
e67
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
Unfortunately, the extent of scalp hair loss alone does not 
capture the wider impact of AA on an individual, particularly 
when psychological distress or functional impact (e.g. loss 
of eyelashes or nails) is prominent or when other visible 
body sites are involved. Therefore, a recent expert consen­
sus7 has advocated adjusting the SALT-based severity rating 
when other additional factors are present. Thus, limited or 
moderate AA may have their severity ratings increased by 
one level if one or more of the following are present:
•	 ‘negative impact on psychological functioning resulting 
from AA’ (Appendix O)
•	 ‘noticeable involvement of eyebrows or eyelashes’
•	 ‘inadequate response after at least 6 months of treat­
ment’
•	 ‘diffuse (multifocal) positive hair pull test consistent with 
rapidly progressive AA’.
Other factors (e.g. religious significance of hair growth) 
can also increase the impact of AA in certain situations89 or 
make assessment more challenging. This emphasizes that 
clinical assessment of AA severity must be holistic, address­
ing individual patient needs, and should be a priority area for 
future research.
7.0 Management
A complete history and careful clinical assessment are 
required in all people with suspected AA, to confirm the 
diagnosis and exclude conditions that may mimic this dis­
ease (see Section 6.0). As part of the assessment, the func­
tional and psychological impacts of the condition should be 
explored to determine the priorities for treatment, as these 
may differ from person to person. A frequent example is 
how someone prioritizes their desire to regrow their scalp, 
eyebrow or beard hair over hair regrowth at other body 
sites, with different treatment approaches often required to 
achieve this priority for that individual.
Various factors (see Section 6.2), in addition to affected 
scalp area, can influence disease severity. Discussion of the 
unpredictable and relapsing nature of AA is important, as that 
may influence which treatments are chosen. Furthermore, 
recognize that extensive disease (AT/AU), longer duration 
of disease and certain presentations (e.g. ophiasis pattern) 
confer a worse prognosis and reduced likelihood of a suc­
cessful treatment response.
All people with AA should have a severity assessment 
(e.g. SALT score) and medical photography9 at baseline, 
with these assessments repeated if the clinical situation 
changes or new therapies are considered. As treatment 
of AA takes time it is important that the therapeutic trial 
is of sufficient duration to allow a treatment response, 
but not so long as to be futile and increase the risk of side 
effects.20 Conventionally, treatments in AA are continued 
for ≥ 6 months, but are stopped if there is an insufficient 
response.70,84 Ultimately, the aim of treatment is complete 
terminal hair regrowth on the scalp and any other body site 
affected. However, achieving ‘cosmetically acceptable’ 
regrowth, where the person with AA has hair growth at 
body sites important to them or can camouflage the hair 
loss, is a reasonable and pragmatic alternative goal. As it is 
recognized that SALT scores do not always correlate with 
patients’ distress, the level of regrowth achieved that is 
regarded as meaningful will vary between individuals.90,91
Following the approval by both NICE and the Scottish 
Medicines Consortium (SMC), one JAK inhibitor (ritlecitinib) 
can be prescribed within the NHS for the management 
of severe AA in adults and adolescents aged ≥ 12 years. 
Although the results of clinical trials have suggested an 
acceptable drug safety profile, drug safety updates have 
been issued by the Medicines and Healthcare products 
Regulatory Agency (MHRA),22 a ‘black box’ warning by the 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA),23 and a safety rec­
ommendation by the European Medicines Agency (EMA)24 
regarding increased risk of venous thromboembolism, 
serious cardiovascular events, cancer and death with JAK 
inhibitors. These drugs should be prescribed with caution in 
anyone aged > 65 years or with risk factors for these condi­
tions. The BAD, in collaboration with the British Hair and Nail 
Society and Alopecia UK, have jointly issued supplemen­
tary guidance regarding the use of ritlecitinib in AA, which 
includes anticipated response rates and practical guidance 
for management.92
Whether to start, stop or change treatment is ultimately 
a clinical decision based on several factors and made in 
discussion with the patient. One area of uncertainty is the 
transition to and between JAK inhibitors,20 and their use in 
combination therapy, due to limited real-world experience 
of using these agents.93 Current summary of product char­
acteristics guidance for ritlecitinib advises against combi­
nation with other systemic immunosuppressive medicinal 
products, suggesting that these agents should be used 
individually and sequentially.19 Furthermore, as more sys­
temic agents are approved for treating AA, and for those 
patients with coexisting immune-mediated inflammatory 
disorders potentially eligible for other licensed agents, con­
sideration should be given to the most appropriate choice 
of systemic therapy for that individual. When used in AA, 
systemic immunosuppressant therapy would be used in the 
same dose range and regimens as for other inflammatory 
skin conditions (e.g. methotrexate 5–25 mg per week; ciclo­
sporin 2.5–5 mg kg−1 per day).94,95
Despite limited evidence, clinicians frequently recommend 
topical or oral minoxidil and topical prostaglandin analogues 
to the eyelashes, as adjunctive therapies in AA, based on 
their known anagen hair-growth-promoting mechanisms 
of action. They are probably most successful in supporting 
hair growth once regrowth has started. Reports of improved 
treatment responses when minoxidil is combined with JAK 
inhibitors96 or other systemic agents, and the potential abil­
ity of minoxidil to reduce longer-term relapse rates,97 need 
confirmation. As some patients starting minoxidil may expe­
rience increased hair shedding in the first few weeks of 
therapy and upon treatment cessation, they should be coun­
selled specifically about this potential side effect.
Once regrowth has occurred the decision to continue 
active maintenance therapy, to reduce the risk of relapse, 
should be considered on a case-by-case basis and reviewed 
regularly. Unfortunately, no intervention to date has conclu­
sively demonstrated alteration of the natural history of the 
disease. Tapering the dose may help reduce side effects 
and allow longer-term treatment courses, but this approach 
needs to be balanced against the risk of relapse. Even when 
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
e68
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
a certain treatment has not resulted in complete regrowth, 
the improvement in hair coverage may allow transition to 
alternative, safer and more sustainable localized therapies 
that previously would not have been suitable for more exten­
sive disease. The need for additional psychological support 
and/or requirements for a wig should be reviewed regularly.
7.1 Special populations
7.1.1 Conception, pregnancy and breastfeeding
It is important to advise all patients of childbearing poten­
tial of the risks and benefits of treatment in the context of 
pregnancy. This is particularly relevant in AA considering the 
peak onset and patient demographics in this disease.29 A 
clear risk–benefit discussion is required on a case-by-case 
basis and additional obstetric advice should be sought, if 
required. Anecdotally, many women with AA describe 
improvement in their AA during pregnancy, perhaps relat­
ing to the physiological immune changes required to carry 
a baby to term.
Commonly used AA treatments that can possibly be 
offered during pregnancy and breastfeeding include topical, 
intralesional and systemic corticosteroids, topical dithranol 
and oral ciclosporin. Specific areas to consider are outlined 
below.
1.	
Systemic corticosteroids
	
Caution is required due to the potential increased 
risk of cleft palate/lip (based on animal studies,98,99 
but not proven in humans) and higher risk of preterm 
delivery. Maternal blood pressure and glucose levels 
need to be monitored during treatment.
2.	
Ciclosporin
	
It is recommended that pregnant women should 
undergo close monitoring of their blood pressure, 
renal function and glucose levels.
Treatments to avoid in pregnancy include contact immu­
notherapy, methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil, JAK 
inhibitors and minoxidil. Specifically, there are no data on 
contact immunotherapy in pregnancy or breastfeeding. 
Therefore, the recommendation is to avoid pregnancy dur­
ing and up to 6 months post-treatment. Currently, there 
are insufficient data on the safety profile of JAK inhibitors 
in pregnancy, and these agents should also be avoided 
during breastfeeding. Topical and oral minoxidil should be 
avoided during pregnancy, based on animal studies raising 
concerns regarding placental perfusion. Furthermore, there 
have been case reports of neonatal hypertrichosis following 
exposure during pregnancy. Minoxidil has been found to 
be present in breast milk but is not known to be harmful to 
the fetus (see Appendix C, which also includes advice on 
paternal exposure).
7.1.2 Paediatric alopecia areata
Children and young people with AA will have varying 
degrees of hair loss and may be happy and healthy and not 
wish to seek treatment. The choice to pursue treatment 
is not always based on the percentage of hair loss, but 
additive factors, such as noticeability of the alopecia, peer 
opinion and the wishes of parents or carers, who may have 
their own specific expectations, also play a role. Therefore, 
within this complex dynamic, the wishes of the young per­
son must be balanced with those of their family or carers. 
Ultimately, all decisions must factor in the wishes of the 
child or young person, following a balanced discussion of 
the different options. The British Society for Paediatric and 
Adolescent Dermatology guidance on assessment and sup­
port of mental health in children and young people with skin 
conditions is a useful reference to support management 
decisions.100
The most appropriate treatment will depend on the age 
and maturity of the person, the emotional and social impact 
of their hair loss, their ability to tolerate specific therapies 
(e.g. intralesional injections) and the potential risk of adverse 
effects with different treatment options. The relapsing and 
remitting nature of AA should be carefully explained. Early 
treatment of AA may predict a more favourable outcome,101 
but this must be balanced against medicalization of the 
childhood years and the potential for developing health anx­
ieties from increased medical intervention and exposure to 
invasive or painful procedures.
Age-appropriate patient and parent information, including 
information for schools, can improve the social impact of 
significant hair loss. The national hair loss charity Alopecia 
UK provides age-appropriate school and individual resources 
and can support groups and events for children, as well 
as provide peer support for individuals and their families. 
Providing skills and appropriate information to answer peer 
questions and comments can help and empower the indi­
vidual to adjust to their change in appearance.
Unfortunately, the evidence base for treatment of AA 
in the paediatric population is poor, with many treatment 
strategies extrapolated from data in the adult population. 
Therefore, it is vital that future clinical trials, disease reg­
isters and other clinical studies should include children 
and young people, wherever possible, to guide treatment, 
inform patient stratification and provide an evidence base 
for clinical management options. Generally, when therapies 
are chosen to treat AA in young people, the least invasive 
and safest options are usually chosen first. Topical corticos­
teroids (any age) and contact immunotherapy (≥ 5 years) 
are generally well tolerated in this population. Ritlecitinib is 
licensed for severe AA in children aged ≥ 12 years.
Children and young people may choose to wear a wig 
to cover their hair loss. Children may find their wigs wear 
out more quickly depending on activities undertaken. The 
UK charity The Little Princess Trust (https://www.littleprin­
cesses.org.uk) will provide one human hair wig to children 
and young people with hair loss, aged < 24 years.
7.2 Pharmacovigilance
As new, high-cost therapies become available, it is important 
that we understand the longer-term safety and effectiveness 
of these treatments specifically in the population with AA. 
GRASS-UK102 (www.bad.org.uk/research-journals/research/
grass-uk) is a BAD-supported, prospective pharmacovigi­
lance register based at the University of Manchester, and 
part of an international collaboration (GRASS-International) 
designed to generate harmonized high-quality, real-world 
data for existing and emerging AA therapies.103 All people 
with moderate-to-severe AA should be encouraged to reg­
ister for this study, where available.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
e69
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
8.0 Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive people with AA, is there clear 
documentation of:
1.	
Provision of a patient information leaflet on the con­
dition (e.g. https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/condi­
tion/alopecia-areata)?
2.	
Objective severity assessment of AA [e.g. Severity 
of Alopecia Tool (SALT) or Investigator’s Global 
Assessment (IGA) grading] at first presentation or 
prior to starting any new ­therapy?
3.	
Assessment of psychological/psychosocial and func­
tional impact at first presentation?
4.	
Quality-of-life assessment [e.g. Dermatology Life 
Quality Index (DLQI)] at first presentation?
5.	
Screening for suicide risk assessment for all people 
identified as having moderate-to-severe psychologi­
cal distress at any timepoint?
6.	
Assessment of nail, eyebrow, eyelash or beard 
involvement at first presentation?
7.	
A potent topical or intralesional corticosteroid offered 
to treat limited-to-moderate disease?
8.	
Safety advice for patients undergoing contact immu­
notherapy?
9.	
Medical photography at first presentation?
10.	 Provision of information on wigs, if clinically 
­indicated?
11.	 Assessment of Janus kinase inhibitor risk factors, 
referenced by the drug safety update issued by the 
MHRA, FDA or EMA, prior to starting treatment?
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department 
is to reduce variation in the results due to a single person 
and allow benchmarking between different units. However, 
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may 
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months. 
See Appendix M in the Supporting Information for the set of 
audit standards, data items and data collection ­methodology.
9.0 External review: stakeholder involvement 
and peer review
The draft manuscript and the Supporting Information doc­
ument were made available to the BAD membership, the 
British Hair and Nail Society (BHNS), the Primary Care 
Dermatological Society (PCDS), the British Dermatological 
Nursing Group (BDNG) and Alopecia UK. All comments 
were actively considered by the GDG, and the guideline 
was updated where appropriate. Following further review, 
the finalized version was sent for peer review by the Clinical 
Standards Unit of the BAD, made up of the Therapy & 
Guidelines subcommittee, prior to submission for ­publication.
Upon publication in a peer-reviewed journal, the guideline 
will also be freely available to access on the BAD ­website.
10.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and 
is based on the best data available at the time of writing. It 
is recognized that under certain conditions it may be nec­
essary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results 
of future studies may require some of the recommenda­
tions herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guide­
lines should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor 
should adherence to these recommendations constitute a 
defence against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review 
to English-language references was a pragmatic decision, 
but the authors recognize this may exclude some important 
information published in other languages.
11.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed literature surveillance will be scheduled 
at ≤ 6 months, with a view to publish (in the absence of a 
trigger) appropriate updates 12 months after publication of 
the previous guideline iteration.
All recommendations will be treated as living. The lit­
erature surveillance may lead to amendments in some 
­recommendations and/or the addition of new recommen­
dations, requiring issuance of the next iteration of this living 
guideline. The next iteration of this living guideline will indi­
cate all changes made to the content, including from a meth­
odological and living guideline maintenance perspective, to 
enable convenient access to the updated information.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank all those who commented on the 
draft guideline during the consultation period.
Author contributions
Matthew Harries (Conceptualization, Supervision, 
Validation, Writing—original draft, Writing—review 
& editing [lead], Data curation [equal]), Alia Ahmed 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Anna Ascott 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Kashif Bhatti 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Joseph Earley 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Paul Farrant 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Susan Holmes 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Amy Johnson 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Abby Macbeth 
(Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, Writing—orig­
inal draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), Andrew G. 
Messenger (Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, 
Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), 
Julian Pearce (Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, 
Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), 
Anita Takwale (Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, 
Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing [equal]), 
Andrew R. Thompson (Conceptualization, Data curation, 
Validation, Writing—original draft, Writing—review & edit­
ing [equal]), Maria Hashme (Data curation [equal]), M. Firouz 
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
e70
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
Mohd Mustapa (Conceptualization, Data curation, Validation, 
Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing [equal], 
Methodology, Project administration, Supervision [lead]) and 
Alina Constantin (Conceptualization, Project administration, 
Supervision, Validation, Writing—review & editing [equal], 
Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology, 
Visualization, Writing—original draft [lead]).
Funding sources and editorial independence
Development of this guideline has been funded inde­
pendently by the BAD. No external factors have detracted 
from the BAD’s organizational and editorial independence. 
The BAD has a strict adherence to its Sponsorship Policy 
and Principles.
Conflicts of interest
The GDG adhered to BAD’s policy for declaration of inter­
ests for guideline authors. Further details may be requested 
by contacting guidelines@bad.org.uk. The following inter­
ests were declared over the duration of the guideline devel­
opment. MJH (1) consultancy for AbbVie, Pfizer and Sun 
Pharma (specific); (2) speaker for Pfizer (specific), principal 
investigator/national chief investigator for a study funded by 
AbbVie (specific); (3) principal investigator for a study funded 
by Sanofi (specific); (4) principal investigator for a study 
funded by Manentia (specific); (5) awarded a research grant 
by UCB (specific); (6) NEJM editorial on baricitinib phase 
III studies (specific); (7) contributed to BAD’s feedback on 
baricitinib and ritlecitinib for NICE’s appraisal (specific); (8) 
expert panel member for baricitinib NICE application (spe­
cific); (9) awarded by BSF a large grant (specific); (10) mem­
ber of the advisory committee for Alopecia UK research 
and grant committee (specific); (11) NIHR Manchester 
Biomedical Research Centre – programme lead (specific). 
PF (1) speaker at educational meetings on behalf of Pfizer 
(specific). SH (1) consultancy work for Pfizer UK (specific); 
(2) investigator for a noninterventional clinical trial funded 
by Pfizer (specific); (3) provided expert opinion to NICE, 
SMC, Alopecia UK and the BAD in relation to approval of 
Janus kinase inhibitors for alopecia areata (specific). AJ (1) 
employee of Alopecia UK (specific). AGM (1) holds shares in 
Samson Clinical; (2) chief investigator for Soterios (specific); 
(3) consultancy work for Almirall (specific). AT (1) educa­
tional and travel grants from Pfizer, Almirall, LEO, Novartis, 
Sanofi, Vichy and Sun Pharma. A. Ahmed, A. Ascott, KB, 
JE, AEM, JP, ART, MH, MFMM and AMC have no conflicts 
of interest to declare.
Data availability
The data are available in the Supporting Information.
Ethics statement
Not applicable.
Patient consent
Not applicable.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the 
online version of this article at the publisher’s website.
Appendix A Review protocol.
Appendix B Forest plots.
Appendix 
C 
Linking 
the 
Evidence 
To 
the 
Recommendations (LETR).
Relative values of different outcomes
Balance between desirable and undesirable effects
Certainty of evidence
Patient values and preferences
Cost
Other considerations
List of recommendations.
Appendix D GRADE evidence tables.
Appendix E Summary of included comparative studies.
Appendix F Summary of included within-patient studies.
Appendix G Summary of included noncomparative ­studies.
Appendix H PRISMA diagram – study selection.
Appendix I Risk-of-bias analysis.
Appendix J Excluded papers.
Appendix K Methodology.
Appendix L Search strategy.
Appendix M Audit standards, data items and data collec­
tion methodology.
Appendix N Severity of Alopecia Tool score aid.
Appendix O Scoring guidance for mental health 
patient-reported outcome measures.
References
	 1	
Harries MJ, Ascott A, Asfour L et  al. British Association of 
Dermatologists living guideline for managing people with alo­
pecia areata 2024. Br J Dermatol 2025; 192:190–205.
	 2	
Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et  al. Updated guid­
ance for writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical 
guideline: the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J 
Dermatol 2017; 176:44–51.
	 3	
Australian Living Evidence Consortium. The Living Guidelines 
Handbook: guidance for the production and publication of living 
clinical practice guidelines. Available at: https://researchmgt.
monash.edu/ws/portalfiles/portal/410034102/409550596.pdf 
(last accessed 14 November 2025).
	 4	
Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing 
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care. 
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
	 5	
The GRADE Working Group. GRADE Handbook. Available at: 
https://gdt.gradepro.org/app/handbook/handbook.html (last 
accessed 14 November 2025).
	 6	
Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging 
consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recom­
mendations. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
	 7	
King BA, Mesinkovska NA, Craiglow B et  al. Development 
of the alopecia areata scale for clinical use: results of an aca­
demic–industry collaborative effort. J Am Acad Dermatol 2022; 
86:359–64.
	 8	
Wada-Irimada M, Mizuashi M, Takahashi T et al. A retrospective 
study evaluating the outcomes of high-dose methylpredniso­
lone pulse therapy for 483 patients with moderate-to-severe 
alopecia areata. Br J Dermatol 2021; 185:1267–9.
	 9	
Institute of Medical Illustrators. National standards and guides to 
best practice. Available at: https://www.imi.org.uk/resources/
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 16 ===
e71
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
professional-resources/national-guidelines (last accessed 14 
November 2025).
	10	
Löwe B, Wahl I, Rose M et al. A 4-item measure of depression 
and anxiety: validation and standardization of the Patient Health 
Questionnaire-4 (PHQ-4) in the general population. J Affect 
Disord 2010; 122:86–95.
	11	
Kroenke K, Spitzer RL, Williams JB. The PHQ-9: validity of a brief 
depression severity measure. J Gen Intern Med 2001; 16:606–13.
	12	
Johnson JG, Harris ES, Spitzer RL et  al. The patient health 
questionnaire for adolescents: validation of an instrument for 
the assessment of mental disorders among adolescent primary 
care patients. J Adolesc Health 2002; 30:196–204.
	13	
Spitzer RL, Kroenke K, Williams JB et al. A brief measure for 
assessing generalized anxiety disorder: the GAD-7. Arch Intern 
Med 2006; 166:1092–7.
	14	
Angold A, Costello EJ, Messer SC et al. Development of a short 
questionnaire for use in epidemiological studies of depression 
in children and adolescents. Int J Methods Psychiatr Res 1995; 
5:237–49.
	15	
Finlay AY, Khan GK. Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) 
– a simple practical measure for routine clinical use. Clin Exp 
Dermatol 1994; 19:210–16.
	16	
Mendoza TR, Osei J, Duvic M. The utility and validity of the 
Alopecia Areata Symptom Impact Scale in measuring dis­
ease-related symptoms and their effect on functioning. J 
Investig Dermatol Symp Proc 2018; 19:S41–6.
	17	
Wyrwich KW, Winnette R, Bender R et al. Validation of the 
Alopecia Areata Patient Priority Outcomes (AAPPO) question­
naire in adults and adolescents with alopecia areata. Dermatol 
Ther 2022; 12:149–66.
	18	
Alopecia UK. Charter for Best Practice for NHS Wig Provision. 
Available at: https://www.alopecia.org.uk/charter-for-best-prac­
tice-for-nhs-wig-provision (last accessed 14 November 2025).
	19	
Datapharm. The electronic medicines compendium (emc): Litfulo 
50 mg hard capsules. Available at: https://www.medicines.org.
uk/emc/product/15257 (last accessed 14 November 2025).
	20	
King B, Shapiro J, Ohyama M et al. When to expect scalp hair 
regrowth during treatment of severe alopecia areata with baric­
itinib: insights from trajectories analyses of patients enrolled in 
two phase III trials. Br J Dermatol 2023; 189:666–73.
	21	
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Ritlecitinib 
for treating severe alopecia areata in people 12 years and over. 
Available at: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/TA958 (last 
accessed 14 November 2025).
	22	
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. Janus 
kinase (JAK) inhibitors: new measures to reduce risks of major 
cardiovascular events, malignancy, venous thromboembo­
lism, serious infections and increased mortality. Available at: 
https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-update/janus-kinase-jak-in­
hibitors-new-measures-to-reduce-risks-of-major-cardiovascu­
lar-events-malignancy-venous-thromboembolism-serious-infec­
tions-and-increased-mortality (last accessed 14 November 2025).
	23	
US Food and Drug Administration. Janus kinase (JAK) inhib­
itors: drug safety communication – FDA requires warnings 
about increased risk of serious heart-related events, cancer, 
blood clots, and death. Available at: https://www.fda.gov/
safety/medical-product-safety-information/janus-kinase-jak-in­
hibitors-drug-safety-communication-fda-requires-warn­
ings-about-increased-risk (last accessed 14 November 2025).
	24	
European Medicines Agency. Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi) 
– referral. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/
medicines/human/referrals/janus-kinase-inhibitors-jaki (last 
accessed 14 November 2025).
	25	
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Depression in 
adults: treatment and management. Available at: https://www.
nice.org.uk/guidance/ng222 (last accessed 14 November 2025).
	26	
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Depression 
in children and young people: identification and management. 
Available at: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng134 (last 
accessed 14 November 2025).
	27	
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Self-harm: 
assessment, management and preventing recurrence. Available 
at: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng225/chapter/recom­
mendations#principles-for-assessment-and-care-by-health­
care-professionals-and-social-care-practitioners (last accessed 
14 November 2025).
	28	
Messenger AG, McKillop J, Farrant P et al. British Association 
of Dermatologists’ guidelines for the management of alopecia 
areata 2012. Br J Dermatol 2012; 166:916–26.
	29	
Harries M, Macbeth AE, Holmes S et al. The epidemiology of 
alopecia areata: a population-based cohort study in UK primary 
care. Br J Dermatol 2022; 186:257–65.
	30	
Ikeda T. A new classification of alopecia areata. Dermatologica 
1965; 131:421–45.
	31	
Tosti A, Bellavista S, Iorizzo M. Alopecia areata: a long term 
follow-up study of 191 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006; 
55:438–41.
	32	
Walker SA, Rothman S. A statistical study and consideration of 
endocrine influences. J Invest Dermatol 1950; 14:403–13.
	33	
Gip L, Lodin A, Molin L. Alopecia areata. A follow-up investiga­
tion of outpatient material. Acta Derm Venereol 1969; 49:180–8.
	34	
Burroway B, Griggs J, Tosti A. Alopecia totalis and universalis 
long-term outcomes: a review. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 
2020; 34:709–15.
	35	
Sato-Kawamura M, Aiba S, Tagami H. Acute diffuse and total 
alopecia of the female scalp. A new subtype of diffuse alope­
cia areata that has a favorable prognosis. Dermatology 2002; 
205:367–73.
	36	
Paus R. The evolving pathogenesis of alopecia areata: major 
open questions. J Investig Dermatol Symp Proc 2020; 20:S6–10.
	37	
Alkhalifah A, Alsantali A, Wang E et al. Alopecia areata update: 
part I. Clinical picture, histopathology, and pathogenesis. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2010; 62:177–88.
	38	
Petukhova L, Duvic M, Hordinsky M et al. Genome-wide asso­
ciation study in alopecia areata implicates both innate and adap­
tive immunity. Nature 2010; 466:113–17.
	39	
McDonagh AJ, Messenger AG. The pathogenesis of alopecia 
areata. Dermatol Clin 1996; 14:661–70.
	40	
Betz RC, Petukhova L, Ripke S et al. Genome-wide meta-anal­
ysis in alopecia areata resolves HLA associations and reveals 
two new susceptibility loci. Nat Commun 2015; 6:5966.
	41	
Petukhova L, Christiano AM. Functional interpretation of 
genome-wide association study evidence in alopecia areata. 
J Invest Dermatol 2016; 136:314–17.
	42	
Fischer J, Degenhardt F, Hofmann A et al. Genomewide analysis 
of copy number variants in alopecia areata in a Central European 
cohort reveals association with MCHR2. Exp Dermatol 2017; 
26:536–41.
	43	
Rajabi F, Drake LA, Senna MM et al. Alopecia areata: a review 
of disease pathogenesis. Br J Dermatol 2018; 179:1033–48.
	44	
Paus R, Nickoloff BJ, Ito T. A ‘hairy’ privilege. Trends Immunol 
2005; 26:32–40.
	45	
Paus R, Bertolini M. The role of hair follicle immune privilege 
collapse in alopecia areata: status and perspectives. J Investig 
Dermatol Symp Proc 2013; 16:S25–7.
	46	
Xing L, Dai Z, Jabbari A et al. Alopecia areata is driven by cyto­
toxic T lymphocytes and is reversed by JAK inhibition. Nat Med 
2014; 20:1043–9.
	47	
Ito T, Ito N, Saathoff M et al. Interferon-γ is a potent inducer of 
catagen-like changes in cultured human anagen hair follicles. Br 
J Dermatol 2005; 152:623–31.
	48	
Gulec AT, Tanriverdi N, Duru C et al. The role of psychological 
factors in alopecia areata and the impact of the disease on the 
quality of life. Int J Dermatol 2004; 43:352–6.
	49	
Zhang X, Yu M, Yu W et  al. Development of alopecia 
areata is associated with higher central and peripheral 
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 17 ===
e72
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal tone in the skin graft induced 
C3H/HeJ mouse model. J Invest Dermatol 2009; 129:1527–38.
	50	
Peters EM, Liotiri S, Bodó E et al. Probing the effects of stress 
mediators on the human hair follicle: substance P holds central 
position. Am J Pathol 2007; 171:1872–86.
	51	
Rodriguez TA, Duvic M. Onset of alopecia areata after Epstein–
Barr virus infectious mononucleosis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008; 
59:137–9.
	52	
McCusker M, Sidbury R. Nutrition and skin: kids are not just 
little people. Clin Dermatol 2016; 34:698–709.
	53	
Aksu Cerman A, Sarikaya Solak S, Kivanc Altunay I. Vitamin D 
deficiency in alopecia areata. Br J Dermatol 2014; 170:1299–
304.
	54	
Honda K, Littman DR. The microbiota in adaptive immune 
homeostasis and disease. Nature 2016; 535:75–84.
	55	
Rebello D, Wang E, Yen E et al. Hair growth in two alopecia 
patients after fecal microbiota transplant. ACG Case Rep J 2017; 
4:e107.
	56	
Holmes S, Harries M, Macbeth AE et al. Alopecia areata and risk 
of atopic and autoimmune conditions: population-based cohort 
study. Clin Exp Dermatol 2023; 48:325–31.
	57	
Chu S-Y, Chen Y-J, Tseng W-C et al. Comorbidity profiles among 
patients with alopecia areata: the importance of onset age, a 
nationwide population-based study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2011; 
65:949–56.
	58	
Lee NR, Kim BK, Yoon NY et al. Differences in comorbidity 
profiles between early-onset and late-onset  alopecia areata 
patients: a retrospective study of 871 Korean patients. Ann 
Dermatol 2014; 26:722–6.
	59	
Macbeth AE, Holmes S, Harries M et al. The associated bur­
den of mental health conditions in alopecia areata: a popula­
tion-based study in UK primary care. Br J Dermatol 2022; 
187:73–81.
	60	
Vallerand IA, Lewinson RT, Parsons LM et al. Assessment of 
a bidirectional association between major depressive disorder 
and alopecia areata. JAMA Dermatol 2019; 155:475–9.
	61	
Bain KA, McDonald E, Moffat F et al. Alopecia areata is char­
acterized by dysregulation in systemic type 17 and type 2 
cytokines, which may contribute to disease-associated psycho­
logical morbidity. Br J Dermatol 2020; 182:130–7.
	62	
Schielein MC, Tizek L, Ziehfreund S et al. Stigmatization caused 
by hair loss – a systematic literature review. J Dtsch Dermatol 
Ges 2020; 18:1357–68.
	63	
Kang JH, Lin HC, Kao S et al. Alopecia areata increases the risk 
of stroke: a 3-year follow-up study. Sci Rep 2015; 5:11718.
	64	
Shin JW, Kang T, Lee JS et al. Time-dependent risk of acute 
myocardial infarction in patients with alopecia areata in Korea. 
JAMA Dermatol 2020; 156:763–71.
	65	
Wang EH, Santos L, Li XY et al. Alopecia areata is associated 
with increased expression of heart disease biomarker cardiac 
troponin I. Acta Derm Venereol 2018; 98:776–82.
	66	
Huang KP, Joyce CJ, Topaz M et  al. Cardiovascular risk in 
patients with alopecia areata (AA): a propensity-matched retro­
spective analysis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2016; 75:151–4.
	67	
Lee S, Lee YB, Kim BJ et al. All-cause and cause-specific mor­
tality risks associated with alopecia areata: a Korean nationwide 
population-based study. JAMA Dermatol 2019; 155:922–8.
	68	
Harries MJ, Holmes S, McMichael A, Messenger AG. Acquired 
disorders of hair. In: Rook’s Textbook of Dermatology (Griffiths 
EMC, Baker J, Bleiker OT, Chalmers R, Creamer D, eds), 10 edn. 
Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Blackwell, 2024; Ch. 87.
	69	
Yip L, Horev L, Sinclair R et al. Atrichia with papular lesions: a 
report of three novel human hairless gene mutations and a revi­
sion of diagnostic criteria. Acta Derm Venereol 2008; 88:346–9.
	70	
Meah N, Wall D, York K et al. The Alopecia Areata Consensus of 
Experts (ACE) study: results of an international expert opinion 
on treatments for alopecia areata. J Am Acad Dermatol 2020; 
83:123–30.
	71	
Muller SA, Winkelmann RK. Alopecia areata. An evaluation of 
736 patients. Arch Dermatol 1963; 88:290–7.
	72	
Lee S, Lee YB, Kim BJ et al. Screening of thyroid function 
and autoantibodies in patients with alopecia areata: a system­
atic review and meta-analysis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2019; 
80:1410–13.
	73	
Ly S, Manjaly P, Kamal K et al. Comorbid conditions associated 
with alopecia areata: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Am J Clin Dermatol 2023; 24:875–93.
	74	
Kinoshita-Ise M, Martinez-Cabriales SA, Alhusayen R. 
Chronological association between alopecia areata and autoim­
mune thyroid diseases: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
J Dermatol 2019; 46:702–9.
	75	
Bin Saif GA. Severe subtype of alopecia areata is highly associ­
ated with thyroid autoimmunity. Saudi Med J 2016; 37:656–61.
	76	
Han TY, Lee JH, Noh TK et al. Alopecia areata and overt thy­
roid diseases: a nationwide population-based study. J Dermatol 
2018; 45:1411–17.
	77	
Patel D, Li P, Bauer AJ et al. Screening guidelines for thyroid 
function in children with alopecia areata. JAMA Dermatol 2017; 
153:1307–10.
	78	
White MI, Currie J, Williams MP. A study of the tissue iron 
status of patients with alopecia areata. Br J Dermatol 1994; 
130:261–3.
	79	
Boffa MJ, Wood P, Griffiths CE. Iron status of patients with 
alopecia areata. Br J Dermatol 1995; 132:662–4.
	80	
Esfandiarpour I, Farajzadeh S, Abbaszadeh M. Evaluation of 
serum iron and ferritin levels in alopecia areata. Dermatol Online 
J 2008; 14:21.
	81	
Jin W, Zheng H, Shan B et al. Changes of serum trace ele­
ments level in patients with alopecia areata: a meta-analysis. J 
Dermatol 2017; 44:588–91.
	82	
d’Ovidio R, Vessio M, d’Ovidio FD. Reduced level of 
25-hydroxyvitamin D in chronic/relapsing alopecia areata. 
Dermatoendocrinol 2013; 5:271–3.
	83	
Thompson JM, Li T, Park MK et al. Estimated serum vitamin 
D status, vitamin D intake, and risk of incident alopecia areata 
among US women. Arch Dermatol Res 2016; 308:671–6.
	84	
Olsen EA, Hordinsky MK, Price VH et al. Alopecia areata inves­
tigational assessment guidelines – part II. National Alopecia 
Areata Foundation. J Am Acad Dermatol 2004; 51:440–7.
	85	
King B, Ohyama M, Kwon O et al. Two phase 3 trials of baric­
itinib for alopecia areata. N Engl J Med 2022; 386:1687–99.
	86	
Wyrwich KW, Kitchen H, Knight S et al. The Alopecia Areata 
Investigator Global Assessment scale: a measure for evaluat­
ing clinically meaningful success in clinical trials. Br J Dermatol 
2020; 183:702–9.
	87	
Wyrwich KW, Kitchen H, Knight S et al. Development of the 
Scalp Hair Assessment PRO™ measure for alopecia areata. Br 
J Dermatol 2020; 183:1065–72.
	88	
Wyrwich KW, Kitchen H, Knight S et al. Development of clini­
cian-reported outcome (ClinRO) and patient-reported outcome 
(PRO) measures for eyebrow, eyelash and nail assessment in 
alopecia areata. Am J Clin Dermatol 2020; 21:725–32.
	89	
Moussa A, Bennett M, Wall D et al. The Alopecia Areata Severity 
and Morbidity Index (ASAMI) study: results from a global expert 
consensus exercise on determinants of alopecia areata severity. 
JAMA Dermatol 2024; 160:341–50.
	90	
McSweeney SM, Rayinda T, McGrath JA et  al. Two phase 
III trials of baricitinib for alopecia areata: a critically appraised 
research paper. Br J Dermatol 2023; 188:195–7.
	91	
Renert-Yuval Y, Correa da Rosa J, Garcet S et al. Analysis of 
alopecia areata surveys suggests a threshold for improved 
patient-reported outcomes. Br J Dermatol 2022; 187:539–47.
	92	
British Association of Dermatologists. Ritlecitinib for alopecia 
areata. Available at: https://cdn.bad.org.uk/uploads/2024/07/
01005430/ritlecitinib-for-alopecia-areata-supplementary-guid­
ance-26.06.24.pdf (last accessed 14 November 2025).
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 18 ===
e73
BAD living guideline for managing people with AA 2025, M.J. Harries et al.
	93	
Kazmi A, Moussa A, Bokhari L et al. Switching between tofac­
itinib and baricitinib in alopecia areata: a review of clinical 
response. J Am Acad Dermatol 2023; 89:1248–50.
	94	
Joly P, Lafon A, Houivet E et al. Efficacy of methotrexate alone 
versus methotrexate plus low-dose prednisone in patients with 
alopecia areata totalis or universalis: a 2-step double-blind ran­
domized clinical trial. JAMA Dermatol 2023; 159:403–10.
	95	
Lai VWY, Chen G, Gin D et al. Cyclosporine for moderate-to-se­
vere alopecia areata: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-con­
trolled clinical trial of efficacy and safety. J Am Acad Dermatol 
2019; 81:694–701.
	96	
Wambier CG, Craiglow BG, King BA. Combination tofacitinib 
and oral minoxidil treatment for severe alopecia areata. J Am 
Acad Dermatol 2021; 85:743–5.
	97	
Olsen EA, Carson SC, Turney EA. Systemic steroids with or 
without 2% topical minoxidil in the treatment of alopecia areata. 
Arch Dermatol 1992; 128:1467–73.
	98	
Fraser FC, Fainstat TD. Production of congenital defects in the 
off-spring of pregnant mice treated with cortisone; progress 
report. Pediatrics 1951; 8:527–33.
	99	
Walker B, Fraser F. The embryology of cortisone-induced cleft 
palate. Development 1957; 5:201–9.
	100	 McPherson T, Ravenscroft J, Ali R et  al. British Society 
for Paediatric and Adolescent Dermatology assessment 
and support of mental health in children and young people 
with skin conditions: a multidisciplinary expert consensus 
statement and recommendations. Br J Dermatol 2023; 
189:459–66.
	101	 Yang CC, Lee CT, Hsu CK et al. Early intervention with high-
dose steroid pulse therapy prolongs disease-free interval of 
severe alopecia areata: a retrospective study. Ann Dermatol 
2013; 25:471–4.
	102	 Harries M, Al-Nuaimi Y, Wall D et al. The Global Register of 
Alopecia areata disease Severity and treatment Safety – UK 
(GRASS-UK): importance of real-world data in alopecia areata. 
Clin Exp Dermatol 2025; 50:1250–2.
	103	 Wall D, Meah N, York K et  al. A global eDelphi exercise to 
identify core domains and domain items for the development 
of a Global Registry of Alopecia Areata Disease Severity and 
Treatment Safety (GRASS). JAMA Dermatol 2021; 157:1–11.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/194/2/e56/8322888 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 19 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
