=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists’ guidelines for the
care of patients with actinic keratosis 2017
D. de Berker,1 J.M. McGregor,2 M.F. Mohd Mustapa,3 L.S. Exton3 and B.R. Hughes4
1Bristol Dermatology Centre, University Hospitals Bristol, Bristol BS2 8HW, U.K.
2Department of Dermatology, Barts Health NHS Trust, London E1 1BB, U.K.
3British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London W1T 5HQ, U.K.
4Portsmouth Dermatology Centre, Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust, Portsmouth PO3 6AD, U.K.
Correspondence
David de Berker.
E-mail: guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
7 September 2016
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
None declared.
D. de B., J.M.M. and B.R.H. are members of the Guideline Development Group, with
technical support from L.S.E. and M.F.M.M.
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines (T&G) Sub-
committee. Members of the Clinical Standards Unit who have been involved are P.M.
McHenry (Chairman T&G), K. Gibbon, D.A. Buckley, I. Nasr, C.E. Duarte Wil-
liamson, V.J. Swale, T.A. Leslie, E.C. Mallon, S. Wakelin, S. Ungureanu, R.Y.P.
Hunasehally, M. Cork, G.A. Johnston, J. Natkunarajah, F.S. Worsnop, N. Chiang, J.
Donnelly (British National Formulary), C. Saunders (British Dermatological Nursing
Group), A.G. Brian (BAD Scientiﬁc Administrator), L.S. Exton (BAD Information
Scientist) and M.F. Mohd Mustapa (BAD Clinical Standards Manager).
Guidelines produced in 2007 by the British Association of Dermatologists; reviewed and
updated, 2016.
DOI 10.1111/bjd.15107
NICE has renewed accreditation of the process used by the British Associa-
tion of Dermatologists to produce clinical guidelines. The renewed accredi-
tation is valid until 31 May 2021 and applies to guidance produced using
the processes described in Updated guidance for writing a British Associa-
tion of Dermatologists clinical guideline – the adoption of the GRADE
methodology 2016. The original accreditation term began on 12 May
2010. More information on accreditation can be viewed at www.nice.
org.uk/accreditation.
1.0 Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the management of acti-
nic keratosis (AK).
The document aims (i) to offer an appraisal of all relevant
literature up to February 2016, focusing on any key develop-
ments; (ii) to address important, practical clinical questions
relating to the primary guideline objective, including accurate
diagnosis and suitable treatment; (iii) to provide guideline
recommendations and, where appropriate, some health eco-
nomic implications; and (iv) to discuss potential developments
and future directions.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in the clinic (see
Section 13.0), in addition to an updated patient information
leaﬂet (PIL), available at the British Association of Dermatolo-
gists (BAD) website (http://www.bad.org.uk/for-the-public/
patient-information-leaﬂets).
1.1 Exclusions
This guideline does not cover bowenoid AK or actinic
cheilitis.
2.0 Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The Guideline Development Group (GDG) consisted of consul-
tant dermatologists. The draft document was circulated to the
BAD membership, the British Dermatological Nursing Group,
the Primary Care Dermatological Society, the British Society
for Skin Care in Immunosuppressed Individuals, and Age U.K.
for comments. These comments were actively considered by
the GDG, and peer reviewed by the Clinical Standards Unit of
the BAD (made up of the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommit-
tee) prior to publication.
3.0 Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD rec-
ommended methodology,1 with reference to the Appraisal of
Guidelines Research and Evaluation (AGREE II) instrument
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
20
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
(www.agreetrust.org).2 Recommendations were developed for
implementation in the National Health Service (NHS) using a
process of considered judgement based on the evidence. The
PubMed, MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were searched for
meta-analyses,
randomized
and
nonrandomized
controlled
clinical trials, case series, case reports and open studies involv-
ing AK published in the English language from January 2004
to February 2016; the search terms and strategies are detailed
in Appendix S1 (see Supporting Information). Additional rele-
vant references were also isolated from citations in the
reviewed literature, as well as speciﬁc targeted searches for
systemic treatments and AK developing into squamous cell
carcinoma (SCC) as a result of speciﬁc new treatments.
All identiﬁed titles were screened, and those relevant for
ﬁrst-round inclusion were selected for further scrutiny. The
abstracts for the shortlisted references were then reviewed by
the GDG, with a third round of review and selection for pho-
todynamic therapy (PDT) publications given their number and
complexity. Disagreements in the ﬁnal selections were resolved
by discussion with the entire GDG. The full papers of relevant
material were obtained. The structure of the 2007 guidelines
was then discussed and re-evaluated, with headings and sub-
headings decided; different coauthors were allocated separate
subsections. Each coauthor then performed a detailed appraisal
of the selected literature with discussions within the GDG to
resolve any issues. All subsections were subsequently collated
and edited to produce the ﬁnal guideline.
4.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines, and that the results
of future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review to English-
language references was a pragmatic decision, but the authors
recognize this may exclude some important information pub-
lished in other languages.
5.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision of this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2021; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
6.0 Background
Actinic keratoses (synonymous with solar keratoses) are kera-
totic lesions occurring on chronically light-exposed adult skin.
They represent focal areas of abnormal keratinocyte prolifera-
tion and differentiation that carry a low risk of progression to
invasive SCC. A spectrum of histology is seen, but the cardinal
feature of an AK is epithelial dysplasia. This may be restricted
to the basal layer or may extend to full-thickness atypia, at
which point the lesion is known as SCC in situ (Bowen dis-
ease). There is disorderly arrangement and maturation of
epithelial cells. Multiple buds of epithelial cells may occur at
the membrane zone, but no invasion is seen. Histological vari-
ants of AK have been described, including hypertrophic,
bowenoid, lichenoid, acantholytic and pigmented.
Actinic keratoses are generally considered to be premalig-
nant lesions with low individual potential for invasive malig-
nancy and potential for spontaneous regression. AKs present as
discrete, sometimes conﬂuent, patches of erythema and scaling
on predominantly sun-exposed skin, usually in middle-aged
and elderly individuals. Clinically, they are graded on a three-
point scale according to magnitude. Field change might
include any or all of these lesions (Table 1).3 At grade 1 the
lesion is just visible and palpable (gritty to feel and difﬁcult to
see), grade 2 lesions are usually red and scaly (easily felt and
seen), and grade 3 corresponds to thicker, hyperkeratotic
lesions. Grade 3 AKs can be difﬁcult to differentiate from
small, early SCCs, which, if excised, may be reported to have
early or equivocal invasion.
They are often asymptomatic but may occasionally be sore
or itch; lesions may be single or multiple. When multiple, the
concept of ‘ﬁeld change’ is used to describe an area of skin
that is involved extensively with actinic damage.4 The epi-
demiology, risk factors, disease associations and demographics
of the ‘at-risk’ population are all pertinent to patient manage-
ment. They are discussed together with the available treatment
options.
6.1 Aetiology
Actinic keratoses are the result of chronic exposure to ultravio-
let (UV) radiation, predominantly on skin of the head and
dorsa of the hands, in fair-skinned individuals.5 In addition,
UVB-speciﬁc p53 mutations have been demonstrated in AKs,
providing molecular evidence in support of a role for sun-
light.6 There is a high prevalence of keratinocyte cancer,
including AKs, in those receiving chronic immunosuppression,
particularly organ transplant recipients,7 but also patients on
long-term treatment for inﬂammatory bowel and rheumato-
logical disease, although this is not as well documented. Other
possible risk factors include exposure to arsenic8,9 and chronic
sunbed use.10–12
Table 1 Grades of actinic keratosis (AK)3
Grade 1
Mild; pink or grey marks with slight scale or gritty
to touch
Grade 2
Moderate; thicker hyperkeratosis and easily detected
Grade 3
Severe; hypertrophic, thick keratin
Field change
Conﬂuent areas of several centimetres or more with
a range of features matching any or all of the
grades of AK
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 21
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
6.2 Incidence and prevalence
It is likely that the incidence of AKs is underestimated. It is
difﬁcult to measure the burden of AKs reliably in individuals
and in populations.13
In
prevalence
studies
in
Galway,
South
Wales
and
Merseyside, 19–24% of individuals aged > 60 had at least one
AK.14–16 AKs were also present in 36% of men aged
40–49 years.16 A linear increase in prevalence was found with
age (from 60 to 80 years) in men but not in women in
another U.K. study, and the rate of new AKs was estimated to
be 149 per 1000 person-years.15 Over 30% of those attending
a dermatology clinic (mean age of attendance 61 years) in
Austria had AK. By the age of 70 years, > 70% of those
attending had AK, with the majority (70%) on the head and
neck.17 A Rotterdam prevalence study of > 2000 Dutch men
and women, mean age 72 years, found AK in 49% of men
and 28% of women.18
6.3 Natural history: spontaneous regression and
malignant transformation
Patients with AK have a chronic disease. The presence of a sin-
gle lesion is a marker of excessive sun exposure and is associ-
ated with the development of further lesions. Point-prevalence
studies demonstrate that lesions regress and relapse over time
(this is probably relevant in the case of grade 1 and 2 lesions).
Figures range between 25% and 70% for apparent resolution
of AKs over a period of 1–4 years.15,19,20 Prospective evalua-
tion demonstrates a low rate of malignant transformation,
with less than one in 1000 AKs developing into SCC per
annum.21 In a US study, 06% of patients developed an SCC
in the AK ﬁeld within the ﬁrst year – rising to 257% at
4 years.20 The higher rate of apparent transformation in the
US study probably reﬂects the higher risk status of this pre-
dominantly male veteran population.
Nonetheless, there is evidence that AKs are a marker of
excess risk for nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC). Mathemati-
cal models derived from the study undertaken by Marks et al.
predict that for an individual with an average of 77 AKs, the
probability of developing an SCC within a 10-year period is
approximately 10%.22
When 918 adults (mean age 61 years) with AKs but no
previous history of skin cancer were followed prospectively
for 5 years, the incidence rates for basal cell carcinoma (BCC)
and SCC were estimated at 4106 and 3198 per 100 000 per-
son-years, respectively, representing an excess risk compared
with the general population.23 A sixfold excess risk for NMSC
or melanoma was found in a representative sample of the US
Medicare population with AKs compared with those without
(P < 0001).24
Despite the proximity of AKs and SCC when they occur on
chronically sun-damaged skin, and the histological and molec-
ular similarities between them,25 debate continues concerning
whether they are separate but similar pathologies developing
in tandem or whether one leads directly to the other. In one
prospective photographic monitoring study over 5 years, it
appeared that 65% of SCCs arose at a site of previously docu-
mented AK.20 A recent systematic review of 24 eligible studies
examining the natural history of AKs concluded that there
were no reliable estimates concerning the frequency of AKs
developing into invasive carcinoma.26
In summary, combined data suggest the possibility of
regression and a low risk of malignant progression for any
given AK. The presence of AK (particularly in high-risk
patients – see Section 7.6 – with multiple AKs or ﬁeld change)
predicts an excess risk for subsequently developing an NMSC
or melanoma compared with a matched population.
6.4 Investigation and diagnosis
Diagnosis of AK may be made in primary or secondary care
and as part of a general skin examination associated with
assessment of sun damage, focal keratotic lesions or skin can-
cer. Teledermatology has been cited as an effective means of
diagnosis.27 Dermoscopy can be employed with a range of
deﬁned dermoscopic features.28 People with chronic ﬂuctuat-
ing disease may learn self-diagnosis but are advised to corrob-
orate their assessment with a healthcare professional. Such
models of patient-led monitoring and action are advocated in
other chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus,29 where moti-
vated self-management is a signiﬁcant element in improved
outcome.30 Diagnosis is typically on clinical grounds. Uncer-
tainty may arise in distinguishing AKs from superﬁcial BCC,
SCC in situ, invasive SCC and even amelanotic melanoma,
where a skin biopsy or excision for histological examination
may be indicated. Where invasive malignancy is in the differ-
ential, the patient care should be shared with a member of a
skin cancer multidisciplinary team. At the diagnosis of AK, the
location and thickness (e.g. grade 1, 2 or 3)3 should be docu-
mented; location is best recorded on a diagram.
6.5 Should actinic keratoses be treated?
The natural history of individual lesions suggests that treat-
ment is not universally required on the basis of preventing
progression into SCC.15 An indirect beneﬁt of treatment is the
demonstration of lesions not responding to normal therapy,
which may represent a subgroup with higher malignant
potential. There is a body of professional opinion that believes
AKs are part of a spectrum that includes SCC in situ, and that
prevention of SCC is therefore the reason for therapy.31 A
Cochrane review of treatment of AK did not ﬁnd any evidence
that treatment of AK resulted in reduction in presentation of
invasive SCC.32 There is inadequate evidence to justify treat-
ment of all AKs to try to prevent malignant change.
The most appropriate management plan should be deter-
mined by the patient’s preferences and clinical circumstances,
which should take into account the extent, duration and pres-
ence of symptoms, severity of lesions and other associated risk
factors for skin cancer, in addition to the patient’s general
health and well-being. A quality-of-life questionnaire (AKQoL)
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
22 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
has been established and validated.33 In particular, patients
express concern with respect to (i) the disease itself, (ii) side-
effects and difﬁculties with treatment, (iii) association with
the term cancer where AK is a risk factor for SCC, and (iv)
the need to adjust sunshine behaviour on a background of
long-acquired habits and preferences.34
7.0 Management
Many options are available for the treatment of AKs. The
main patient-centred considerations are the symptoms and
cosmetic burden of the AK, the efﬁcacy and burden of treat-
ment, and the threat of evolution of the AK into a more
bulky lesion or invasive SCC. Healthcare professional consid-
erations overlap with these, but include others such as efﬁ-
cacy,
a
ﬂexible
regimen,
availability
in
primary
and
secondary care and cost. An additional aspect of management
is consideration of the patient’s overall risk of skin cancer
and the wider skin examination. In the Rotterdam study on
the prevalence of AK in the general population, participants
with ≥10 AKs (136%) had a threefold higher risk for hav-
ing a history of SCC compared with participants with four to
nine (40%).18 Full-body skin examination revealed a skin
cancer (BCC, SCC or melanoma) in 4%. The correlation
between skin cancer and number of AKs led the Dutch
group to advocate shorter follow-up intervals and more
active treatment in those with ≥10 AKs, while not deﬁning
an interval and acknowledging the resource implications for
this 5% of the population.
At the outset of management, the location and grade
(Table 1) of the AKs should be deﬁned to enable monitoring,
response to treatment or evolution. This can be done using
drawings, body maps and photography, often with lesions
numbered.
Management can be directed at individual lesions or over a
wider area (Fig. 1). This distinction represents lesion vs. ﬁeld
treatment. Field-based treatment can act to manage a range of
actinic changes in a zone such as the forehead, scalp or central
face, and may provide some beneﬁt in reduction of onset of
new lesions.35 Topical therapies, skin peels36–39 and PDT are
suitable. Usually, focal destructive therapies such as curettage
and cautery or cryotherapy are limited to lesion treatment
(Table 2).
A European AK guideline achieved consensus through a vot-
ing and weighting method with advice grouped according to
the isolated, ﬁeld-associated or skin-cancer-associated distribu-
tion of the AKs. There remained a preference for cryosurgery
for isolated lesions and curettage for larger ones. Otherwise,
preferences revolved largely around different strengths of the
common main agents, namely 5-ﬂuorouracil (5-FU), imiqui-
mod, ingenol mebutate and variants of PDT. Diclofenac in
hyaluronic acid and imiquimod at 25% were not favoured. In
immunosuppressed patients there was a preference for the
stronger formulations of all products. Laser was not consid-
ered a good choice for any circumstance other than treatment
of ﬁeld disease.40
7.1 No treatment (strength of recommendation A, quality
of evidence 2++)
Summaries of the levels of evidence and strengths of recom-
mendation are given in Appendices 1 and 2.
Any perspective on nontreatment should be based on a
whole-patient assessment, risks, comorbidities and preferences.
The fact that many AKs remit does not diminish the counter-
balancing point that they are associated with UV exposure and
the development of melanoma, SCC and BCC. All patients
need clear information on this risk and their own risk of SCC
in general so that, irrespective of the diagnosis of AK, they
know to present early for assessment if a lesion bleeds, is
painful,
grows
signiﬁcantly
or
becomes
protuberant.
All
patients should be advised regarding sun protection.
7.2 Primary care
Patients with AK will ask their general practitioner (GP) for
diagnosis and treatment advice. Most AKs can be diagnosed
and treated in primary care.41 In healthcare systems with a
primary-care physician as the ﬁrst contact, skin monitoring of
sun-exposed surfaces of the head and neck and dorsa of hands
is possible on an opportunistic basis and can be coupled with
relevant prevention and self-care advice.42 Specialist dermatol-
ogy nurses can play a similar role and are able to prescribe
treatment in some healthcare systems.43 The Primary Care
Dermatology Society has developed guidance on the manage-
ment of AK in primary care in the U.K.44,45 Teledermatology
has been used to support the diagnosis and management of
AK in primary care with specialist guidance.27 AKs are part of
the spectrum of actinic damage, which, once present, is man-
aged rather than cured.
Consider referral for specialist care when:
•
AK fails to respond to standard treatments;
•
multiple or relapsing AKs represent a management chal-
lenge;
•
AK occurs in the long-term immunosuppressed;
•
lesions are likely to be AK, but there is concern that
they might be SCC (use the 2-week-wait route for pos-
sible skin cancer), for example when they are (i) bleed-
ing, (ii) painful or (iii) thickened with substance when
held between ﬁnger and thumb.
7.3 Secondary care
Secondary-care referral is required for diagnosis and/or man-
agement if the lesion might represent an invasive SCC.41 All
regions of the U.K. have dedicated 2-week-wait or ‘urgent
cancer’ pathways. In addition, if treatment in primary care for
AK is unsuccessful, then referral is warranted for management
alone. This includes patients with extensive disease or who are
immunosuppressed (see bullet points above).
Following diagnosis in secondary care, treatment can be ini-
tiated with a future management plan for continued patient
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 23
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
self-care (see Section 7.4) in collaboration with the GP. Histo-
logical diagnosis can be provided through a range of surgical
procedures (see Sections 8.3 and 8.4) determined by lesion
and circumstance. Follow-up in secondary care can be war-
ranted to assess outcomes of treatment, extensive disease,
patients with associated skin cancers, or those with other con-
siderations such as immunosuppression. Nurse clinicians may
contribute to the care pathway.
7.4 Self-care
Actinic keratosis is a chronic disease. Once patients have the
diagnosis of AK, it is usually the start of a continued process
of further lesions and relapse. They may also develop related
pathology such as solar lentigo, lentigo simplex, SCC in situ
and NMSC.
Patient education is important in enabling self-care, with
early
self-diagnosis,
ongoing
intermittent
treatment
and
awareness of the risk of skin cancer and how to minimize this
risk (see the AK PIL available at http://www.bad.org.uk/for-
the-public/patient-information-leaﬂets).
Most
patients
with
mild AK will be seen in primary care and can manage their
disease with topical therapy. Corroboration of diagnosis with
the GP is advisable before treatment of new lesions. Short-
term therapies (e.g. 4 weeks) may need renewal of prescrip-
tion
when
expired
to
ensure
maintained
efﬁcacy.
An
Fig 1. Venn diagram illustrating the overlapping nature of lesion- and ﬁeld-based treatments for actinic keratosis (AK).
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
24 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
Table 2 Factors determining the choice of active therapy from nine main alternatives. The scoring is based on the authors’ evaluation of efﬁcacy, ease of use and morbidity
Choice
5-FU
cream 5%
5-FU cream
05% with
salicylic acid
10%
Diclofenac gel
3%
Imiquimod
5%
Imiquimod
35%
Ingenol
mebutatea
Cryosurgery
Curettage
MAL-PDT
Comments
Main characteristic of AKs
Single AKs
(low number)
••••
••••
••
••
••
••
••••
•
•
Field change
(high number)
••••
••
•••
•••
•••
•••
•••
•
•••
Grade 1 or 2
(thin or medium)
••••
••••
•••
•••
••
•••
•••
•
••
Thin lesions may not
always require
treatment
Grade 3
(hypertrophic)
•
••
•
•
•
•
••
••••
•
Histology may be
required. Curettage
or formal excision
may be preferred
Isolated lesions
failing
to respond to other
therapies
•
••
•
•
•
•
••
••••
•
Histology may be
required. Curettage
or formal excision
may be preferred
Conﬂuent
recalcitrant
AKs, failing other
treatments
•••
••
•
•••
•••
•••
•••
•
••••
Certain lesions
within a resistant
ﬁeld may require
histological
assessment
Location
Scalp, ears, nose,
cheeks, forehead,
perioral
••••
••••
•••
••••
•••
•••
••••
•••
•••
Periorbital
•
••
•
•
•
••
•••
•••
Topical therapies can
be difﬁcult to use
near mouth and
eyes. See
manufacturer’s
recommendations
Conﬂuent scalp
••••
•••
•••
••••
•••
•••
•••
•
••••
Pretreatment with
salicylic acid 5%
ointment may
improve outcome
(continued)
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 25
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
Table 2 (continued)
Choice
5-FU
cream 5%
5-FU cream
05% with
salicylic acid
10%
Diclofenac gel
3%
Imiquimod
5%
Imiquimod
35%
Ingenol
mebutatea
Cryosurgery
Curettage
MAL-PDT
Comments
Below the knee
•
•••
••
•
•
•
••
•••
••••
Poor healing is a
particular concern
at this site. All
modalities can lead
to ulceration.
Treatment may be
combined with
advice on elevation
and compression
bandaging in some
instances
Back of hands
••••
••••
••
••
••
••
••••
•••
•••
Courses of topical
therapy may need
to be extended,
and pretreatment
with salicylic acid
5% ointment may
improve outcome
Comments
Flexible with
multiple
treatments
from one
prescription.
Good for self-
directed care
Collodion base
may enable
more precise
placement of
treatment.
Salicylic acid
probably
increases
suitability for
thickened
lesions
Low-morbidity
treatment
suitable for
thin AKs over a
wide area
Variable
response based
on patient
biology, with
some instances
of substantial
side-effects
Possible slight
reduction of
side-effects
with lower
concentration
2 or 3 days’
application per
treatment
course makes it
easy to
remember, but
reduces
ﬂexibility or
ability for
patient to
modify
according to
side-effects
Reduces need
for patient
involvement,
but increases
dependency on
medical
provision of
treatment;
removes self-
care and can
cause scarring
Good for
provision of
histology and
high efﬁcacy
for isolated
thicker lesions.
Not practical as
routine
treatment,
leaves scars
and requires
local
anaesthetic
Good treatment
for areas of
conﬂuent disease
and poor
response to other
treatments.
Requires
dedicated
equipment and
secondary-care
provision in
most instances
AK, actinic keratosis; FU, ﬂuorouracil; MAL-PDT, methyl aminolaevulinate photodynamic therapy. •••• Good treatment; ••• fair treatment; •• can be used depending on circumstances; • rarely used in
these circumstances. aDosed at 150 lg g1 on the face and 500 lg g1 on the limbs and trunk.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
26 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
important part of patient education is awareness of the side-
effects of treatment before they start therapy. Many cause
short-term redness, soreness and sometimes crusting or ooz-
ing. If this is not anticipated it can cause distress and aban-
donment of treatment, where a pause would have been more
appropriate.
7.5 Prevention
There have been three randomized controlled trials (RCTs)
(two in Australia and one in the U.S.A.) in patients > 50 years
old, many of whom had a history of AKs, to show that sun-
screen, used to prevent unintentional sun exposure, is associ-
ated with a small decrease in the incidence of SCCs and AKs
(but not BCCs) over a short follow-up period.46–48
More active treatment with a 4-week course of 5-FU, 5%
twice daily to a ﬁeld of involved skin can reduce the rate of
onset of new AKs in that area over the subsequent 18 months
when compared with placebo.35
There are no studies to show that sun avoidance reduces
the risk of development of AKs and skin cancer in a popu-
lation without AKs. Nonetheless, it is reasonable to hope
that the effect of public health campaigns over the last few
decades will have an impact on this risk. Such practices
may have a bearing on vitamin D levels, which warrant
review in those patients subject to high levels of sun avoid-
ance or who have other risk factors for diseases related to
low vitamin D.49
7.6 High-risk cases
Are there high-risk groups and is their management different?
Patients with multiple and conﬂuent AKs are likely to be at
higher risk of NMSC than those with single lesions. Patients
on chronic immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk
for skin cancer. Organ transplant recipients are reported as
having 50–100 times the skin cancer risk of an age- and sex-
matched control population.50,51 It is recommended that
high-risk patients have closer follow-up52 and more rigorous
treatment40 for premalignant lesions, including SCC in situ and
AK, together with a lower index of suspicion for skin biopsy
to exclude malignancy. Nonetheless, there is no evidence that
such measures reduce the risk of new skin cancers, although
they may reduce morbidity from surgery and minimize the
risk of recurrence.
Treatment for AKs in transplant patients may be less effec-
tive than in the general population.53 Outcomes may be con-
founded
by
the
large
number
of
proliferative
and
hyperkeratotic lesions in this group. Studies have not found a
reduction in subsequent skin cancers in areas previously trea-
ted for AKs with PDT.51 Oral retinoids have been used to
reduce the risk of SCC in transplant patients at high risk of
getting skin cancer, but the effect on AKs is not reported.
A single study reported that capecitabine, used in 15
patients, reduced the risk of SCC,54 BCC and AKs in organ
transplant recipients, but toxicity is likely to limit its use.55
8.0 Treatment
Treatment needs to address a wide range of variables includ-
ing the nature of the AK, the body site, patient preference, the
premorbid state of the patient and previous treatments tried.
Added to this is the large number of therapeutic agents, their
modes of application and the ﬂexibility with which each agent
can be used. Given this backdrop, it is to be expected that
there is variation in clinical practice. Table 2 attempts to bring
a broad perspective to the options. In some instances it might
be viewed in combination with Table 3, which is an approxi-
mation of a simpliﬁed cost–beneﬁt analysis.
8.1 General
Lifestyle, dietary fat,56 workplace and genetics are likely to
make a difference to the risk of getting AK, mainly relating to
the levels of UV radiation exposure.
8.1.1 Emollient (strength of recommendation B, level of
evidence 2+)
Elderly, sun-damaged skin is often dry, and emollient can be
part of a management regimen. The direct effect of emollient
on AKs is not clear. Additives such as urea or salicylic acid
may provide beneﬁt. There are no trials dedicated to the study
of palliative therapy of AKs, but emollient or gel vehicle has
been employed in the placebo arm of many trials. The vehicle
limb of an RCT of diclofenac gel in hyaluronan vehicle
described clearance of the target lesion in 44% of patients
using the vehicle after 60 days.57 Less dramatic results were
seen with the cream vehicle used in trials of imiquimod
applied two or three times a week for 4 weeks, reporting
complete clearance of treated AKs in 0%,58 24%59 and
141%,60 with the latter treated three times a week for
8 weeks.
8.1.2 Sun protection and sunscreen (strength of
recommendation A, level of evidence 1++)
There is no speciﬁc information or evidence on sun protection
other than through studies on sunscreen. Sunscreen has a
combined emollient and photoprotective effect. A randomized,
placebo-controlled trial of sunscreen with sun protection fac-
tor (SPF) 17 applied twice daily to the face for 7 months
showed sunscreen to be more effective than emollient in
terms of the total number of AKs and new lesions.46 A single,
daily application of sunscreen with SPF 16 in Queensland,
Australia, also showed it to be more effective than discre-
tionary use of the same sunscreen over a 2-year period in the
reduction of AKs.61 A similar approach in the same setting
also reduced the incidence of cutaneous SCC.48 A 24-month
study of daily use of sunscreen (SPF > 50, high UVA absorp-
tion)
in
120
case-controlled
organ
transplant
recipients
showed signiﬁcant reduction in AKs and NMSCs arising during
the study.49
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 27
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
Table 3 Cost, efﬁcacy, ﬂexibility and setting of the main treatment options in AK. Data between treatment groups are not always based on similar sampling and outcome measures. The levels of evidence
contributing to this table range from 1++ to 4
Period of evaluation
(longer than
active treatment)
Reduction in
AKs based on
aobservational
studies, bRCTs or
cmeta-analysis
(values do not
reﬂect excess
over control)
Cost range per item
Dispensed item
Add-on cost of staff
time or equipment.
Primary care or
[secondary care].
dTypically requires
2 visits
Flexible
regimens
Amenable to
patient-directed care
and monitoring
Amenable
to primary care
No treatment
Periodic, indeﬁnite
Up to 21%a,15
♦
0
•
•
•••
Emollient or vehicle
Periodic, indeﬁnite
0–44%b,57,60
♦
0
•
•
•••
Sunscreen (UVA 3/
SPF 17–50)
Periodic, indeﬁnite
17–36%b,46,47
♦
500 mL
♦[♦♦]
•
•
•••
5-Fluorouracil 5%
2–4 months
70–78%b,36,66
♦
40 g
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
•••
••
••
Imiquimod 5%
2–4 months
50%c to 84%b,74,75
♦/♦♦
12–24 sachets
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
•••
••
••
Imiquimod 375%
3–4 months
34–36%b,85
♦♦♦/♦♦♦♦
28–56 sachets
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
•••
••
••
Diclofenac gel 3%
2–4 months
19–70%b,57,90
♦/♦♦
50–100 g
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
••
••
•••
Ingenol mebutate
(150 lg g1 face,
500 lg g1 limbs
and trunk)
1–2 months
34–42%b,92,93
♦♦
2–3 single-application
047-g tubes
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
•
❍
••
MAL-PDT
1–2 months
69–93%b,107,119,127,176
♦♦♦
Single treatment tube
£427–£928177
••
❍
❍
Cryosurgery
1–2 months
39–88%a,103,106
Not known
Not applicable
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
••
❍
•
Combination therapies
5-Fluorouracil
05%
and salicylic acid
10%
2–4 months
55%a to 77%b,71,72
♦
25 mL
♦[♦♦]
••
••
•••
Diclofenac gel and
cryosurgery
2–4 months
46–100%a,156,157
♦/♦♦
50–100 g
♦[♦♦]
••
•
•
Imiquimod and
cryosurgery
2–4 months
595%a,86
♦/♦♦
12–24 sachets
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d
••
•
•
Imiquimod and
MAL-PDT
2–4 months
89%a,160
♦/♦♦
12–24 sachets plus
single treatment tube
♦♦[♦♦♦♦]d plus
£427–£928
••
•
❍
Comments
Standard package
size or course
of treatment:
BNF 2014, edition 66
Costs drawn from
NHS publications
AK, actinic keratosis; BNF, British National Formulary; NHS, National Health Service; MAL-PDT, methyl aminolaevulinate photodynamic therapy; RCT, randomized controlled trial; SPF, sun protection
factor; UVA, ultraviolet A. Cost key: ♦£0–50; ♦♦£51–100; ♦♦♦£101–150; ♦♦♦♦£150–200. Care key: ❍not amenable or ﬂexible; • some ﬂexibility/amenability; •• moderate ﬂexibility/amenability;
••• very ﬂexible/amenable. First hospital clinic attendance NHS tariff 2014–15: £104.178 Hospital follow-up attendance: £68. GP visit: £44.179
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
28 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
8.2 Active treatments
All topical therapies for AK may result in side-effects of irrita-
tion. Some AKs proceed to ooze, crusting and soreness with
local swelling. Details are cited in this guideline for the indi-
vidual treatments and are included in the relevant PILs. It is
important that the patient understands the extent of the area
to be treated and anticipates the side-effects. The size of area
will depend on a range of factors including the therapy, focal
or scattered pathology and the conceptual model (ﬁeld- or
lesion-based treatment). Where morbidity is an ascendant con-
cern, treatment should be initiated over a small area such as
4–10 cm2 with ﬂexible frequency to establish tolerance and
conﬁdence. Some treatments deﬁne a ceiling of surface area
based on the aliquot of prescribed item, for example one tube
of ingenol mebutate is a single dose for 25 cm2. Imiquimod
5% is issued in 250-mg sachets where directions include ‘one
sachet only’ and to ‘cover the area’ typically with a centimetre
margin around any pathology. Others recommend a maxi-
mum based on toxicity, such as 500 cm2 for 5-FU 5%.
Patients should be provided with advice on how to manage
side-effects, with strategies including a break in treatment,
altering the frequency of application, use of emollient and in
some instances application of topical steroid.
8.2.1 5-Fluorouracil (strength of recommendation A, level
of evidence 1++)
The majority of the data on topical therapies relate to the 5%
concentration of 5-FU cream. 5-FU works by the inhibition of
thymidylate synthetase, which is needed for DNA synthesis. It
may also interfere with the formation and function of RNA.62
It is a widely used, ﬂexible and low-cost treatment.63 It can
be used either as lesional treatment or as part of ﬁeld treat-
ment. The side-effects with the latter can be substantial, and it
is important that the patient is counselled about them, includ-
ing soreness, redness and possible crusting. All of these can be
minimized through reduction in the frequency of application
or short breaks in a course of therapy. It is permitted to wash
the area and apply thin emollient. If the reaction is excessive,
weak steroid can be applied. It is important that the patient is
enabled to learn how to use the treatment, as it is one they
may require intermittently in the future and a bad initial expe-
rience can limit further use.
Many regimens cite twice-daily application over 4 weeks,
but less frequent initial use may enable titration of the fre-
quency of application against reaction, tolerance and efﬁcacy.
Use at poor healing sites such as the lower leg should always
be undertaken with caution and may need supervision. More
recently, 5-FU 05% in 10% salicylic acid has been evaluated
and can be prescribed.64 A wide range of open trials, dose-
ranging studies and manipulations of the vehicle have been
reported over the last 45 years, as well as two RCTs, conﬁrm-
ing efﬁcacy. A large, placebo-controlled RCT showed 5-FU 5%
to be more effective than placebo in AK clearance and the
reduction of follow-up cryosurgery treatments at 6 months.35
A Cochrane review with subsequent meta-analysis of complete
clearance results ranked the efﬁcacy of all of the main treat-
ments and put 5-FU at the top.65
Nine of the trials were controlled; a right–left comparison
(n = 6) was the most common design, but only ﬁve were ran-
domized. Numbers in the studies were generally small, with a
mean of 26 patients per trial and fewer than 15 patients in
50% of the trials. The minimum follow-up was ≥12 months
in only two studies. Many open studies appeared to demon-
strate the efﬁcacy of 5-FU in a range of potencies and differ-
ent vehicles in the treatment of AKs when used on the face
twice daily for 3 weeks. Only two trials studied the use of 5-
FU in the currently available formulation of a 5% cream in a
well-constructed, controlled manner.36,66 Kurwa et al. exam-
ined the lesional area of AKs on the back of the hands before
and after treatment with 5-FU 5% cream twice daily for
3 weeks in a randomized right–left comparison with a single
treatment
with
PDT.66
Of
the
14
patients
evaluable
at
6 months, there was a mean reduction in lesional area of 70%
(5-FU) and 73% (PDT), with no statistically signiﬁcant differ-
ence between them. Open studies have suggested that this reg-
imen is not sufﬁciently long for effective treatment of AKs on
the hands,67 but is adequate for those on the face.36
Witheiler et al. used 5-FU 5% cream on the face as the con-
trol in a right–left comparison with a single application of
Jessner’s solution (14% lactic acid, 14% salicylic acid, 14%
resorcinol in ethanol) followed by a trichloroacetic acid (TCA)
35% peel.36 There was a mean reduction in AKs on both sides
of the face from 18 to four (78% reduction with 5-FU and
79% reduction with TCA). This beneﬁt was sustained for
12 months. The third follow-up at 32 months demonstrated
that the number of AKs had risen again to 10 (5-FU) and 15
(TCA) in the eight evaluable patients; these differences were
not statistically signiﬁcant.
The results of using the same formulation of 5-FU less fre-
quently, but for prolonged periods, are conﬂicting. An open
trial of 10 patients reported clearance of 96% of AKs after a
mean of 67 weeks applying treatment twice daily, once or
twice per week.68 Six patients were followed for 9 months
and showed an 86% clearance rate that was maintained.
Epstein followed this study with a similar protocol and sample
size, except that evaluation was done by dermatologists given
a series of photographs and blinded to the sequence.69 Eight
of 13 patients failed to show any improvement, with the con-
clusion that pulsing 5-FU over a period < 10 weeks is not
effective. A comparison of use twice daily for 3 weeks against
twice daily for 1 day a week for 12 weeks showed the infre-
quent regimen to be 80% as effective when evaluated at the
ﬁnal assessment at 52 weeks.70
The mixed quality and size of these studies mean it is difﬁ-
cult to provide a ﬁrm interpretation, but the indication is that
pulsed therapy may work for some patients and enable more
protracted therapy with reduced morbidity. Such an approach
can be useful for sensitive areas or people reluctant to use
treatments that provoke redness and crusting. However, for
some people it may fail to show beneﬁt, and increased
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 29
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
frequency of use or an alternative treatment may need to be
employed.
5-FU 05% in 10% salicylic acid has been assessed, where
salicylic acid may be acting as a keratolytic to enhance the
efﬁcacy of 5-FU. In the initial open trial, statistics were under-
taken per AK rather than per patient.71 In this framework, it is
not possible to report the complete cure of any single patient.
However, the clinical clearance rate for individual AKs was
77%, with no control or blinding. Subsequent evaluation
against salicylic acid vehicle and diclofenac 3% in hyaluronic
gel has been undertaken.64 Daily application with a brush for
6–12 weeks or the point of clearance was compared with
twice-daily diclofenac gel over the same period. Eight weeks
post-treatment, complete clearance was determined to be
achieved in 554%, 32% and 151% of the patients using the
study product, diclofenac and vehicle, respectively; the AKs
were grades 1 and 2. A follow-up phase of the same study
measured the rate of relapse of individual lesions rather than
relapse from complete clearance.72 With this measure, the rate
of relapse measured per lesion was less at 12 months with 5-
FU 05% in 10% salicylic acid (142%) than diclofenac 3% gel
(19%) (P = 002%).72 The nature of the application makes it
suitable for lesion-directed therapy rather than ﬁeld therapy.
The license highlights the beneﬁt of the salicylic acid vehicle
as a means of addressing more keratotic AKs. About 50% of
patients discontinue treatment at 6 weeks due to disappear-
ance of the AK.73
8.2.2 Imiquimod 5% cream (strength of recommendation
A, level of evidence 1++)
Imiquimod is a topical immune-response modiﬁer. It is avail-
able as a 5% and a 375% cream. Most of the data on treat-
ment response pertain to the 5% cream and are considered
ﬁrst. In the U.K. it is licensed for use in clinically typical, non-
hyperkeratotic, nonhypertrophic AKs on the face or scalp in
immunocompetent adults, when the size or number of lesions
limits the efﬁcacy and/or acceptability of cryotherapy, and
other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less
appropriate. It is applied at night and washed off in the morn-
ing 8 h later. Courses are three times a week for 4 weeks,
which can be repeated for a further 4 weeks if needed.
A meta-analysis of the use of imiquimod 5% cream from
ﬁve RCTs using it two or three times a week for 12–16 weeks
demonstrated a 50% complete clearance rate. This is similar to
more brief and ﬂexible regimens as per the license.74 A small
RCT against vehicle placebo showed clearance rates of 84%
when used up to three times per week for 12 weeks.75 Two
RCTs with regimens of three times per week for 16 weeks
and follow-up 8 weeks later gave 47% of subjects with com-
plete clearance (vs. 72% with placebo)76 and 571% (vs.
22% for placebo).59
A head-to-head open trial between imiquimod 5% (twice
per week for 16 weeks), its cream vehicle and diclofenac 3%
gel (twice daily for 90 days) showed complete clearance of
191%, 0% and 20% at the end of the respective treatment
periods. After a further 24 weeks, these ﬁgures changed to
45%, 0% and 143%, respectively, illustrating that improve-
ment continues to progress after the conclusion of imiquimod,
in contrast to other treatments.58 Similar results were reported
for imiquimod 5% used three times a week for 4 weeks in
126 patients, and repeated for a further 4 weeks a month later
in 79 of them and compared with cream vehicle. The global
complete response in the combined groups was 55%, com-
pared with 23% for vehicle, illustrating that personal variation
makes it possible to tailor the duration of the regimen to the
individual.77 An RCT comparing imiquimod 5% cream on the
face [three times a week for 4 (40%) or 8 (60%) weeks
depending on response] with liquid nitrogen spray (10-s
freeze to commencement of thawing) favoured liquid nitro-
gen, with complete clearance in 88% vs. 669%. However, the
cryosurgery resulted in a higher number of pigmentary
changes.78
The side-effects of imiquimod are similar to those of 5-FU,
with severe erythema (306%), scabbing and crusting (299%)
and erosions or ulceration (102%). Flu-like symptoms can
also arise and are more likely if multiple sachets are used at
each treatment or if it is being used for superﬁcial BCC with
more frequent applications than is typically the case for AK.59
An instance of post-treatment eruptive keratoacanthomas has
been reported.79 The extent of side-effects is not wholly pre-
dictable, with some patients manifesting an extreme reaction
and others very little. The clinical response is largely in pro-
portion to the side-effects, and those terminating treatment
early due to extreme soreness may still get a good response.
Side-effects are generally well tolerated, but it is important to
counsel the patient carefully in order to anticipate those who
have more extreme clinical reactions.80
There are limited long-term data on relapse after treatment,
but in a three-armed RCT between cryosurgery, 5-FU 5% and
imiquimod, the proportions of the intention-to-treat popula-
tion maintaining clearance at 12 months were 1%, 33% and
76%, respectively.81 The cryosurgery treatments were 20–40 s
in duration, which is a dose at which scarring might be
expected. This observation poses questions about this limb of
the study. In an observational, 16-month follow-up study,
753% of those receiving treatment three times a week over
8 weeks were clear at 16 months, in comparison with 574%
receiving the same treatment twice a week.82
There is a small number of studies on imiquimod 375%
cream (strength of recommendation B, level of evidence 1+),
which is licensed for treatment of AKs of the head and scalp
with application once daily for two, 2-week periods separated
by 2 weeks. Early studies had longer courses, applied once
daily for two periods of 3 weeks separated by 3 weeks, over a
9-week course. Comparison with placebo vehicle 8 weeks
after conclusion of treatment showed complete clearance rates
of 55% (placebo) and 34%.83 Where AKs responded they
recurred in 60% of patients within 14 months.84 Where treat-
ment was given as per the licence at weeks 1 and 2, then 5
and 6, complete clearance was seen in 63% and 356% for
emollient
and
imiquimod,
respectively.85
Where
the
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
30 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
comparator was cryosurgery and emollient vehicle, imiquimod
375% following cryosurgery resulted in complete clearance in
595% of patients.86
Imiquimod 375% has also been used following cryosurgery
as a supplementary treatment, improving the result of treatment
of hypertrophic AKs on the forearm and dorsa of the hands over
cryosurgery alone.87 It is possible that the adverse side-effects
associated with imiquimod 5% cream are less with the 375%
formulation, and this might enable more ﬁeld-based treatment
over lesion therapy and improve patient tolerance.
8.2.3 Diclofenac gel (strength of recommendation A, level
of evidence 1+)
Diclofenac 3% in a 25% hyaluronic gel is licensed for applica-
tion twice daily for 60–90 days and can be applied as a
lesion- or ﬁeld-based treatment. Its mechanism of action for
AK is not known, but may be related to inhibition of the
cyclooxygenase pathway leading to reduced prostaglandin E2
synthesis. Diclofenac gel usually causes less intense local skin
reaction than 5-FU or imiquimod 5% cream.88 The reduction
of side-effects is matched by reduced efﬁcacy where diclofenac
gel and 5-FU 5% are compared, but both achieve high levels
(73% vs. 77%) of patient satisfaction.89
There are three vehicle-controlled studies in the treatment
of mild AKs. In the ﬁrst, patients were treated for a mean of
60 days, with a clearance of 70% of target lesions in the treat-
ment group compared with 44% in those using the vehicle.57
In the second study, treatment was for 90 days; 50% achieved
complete clearance vs. 20% of those treated with vehicle alone
(P < 0001).90 In a three-armed RCT comparing diclofenac
3%, imiquimod 5% cream and base cream, the rates of com-
plete clearance at the end of treatment were 191%, 20% and
0%.
In summary, these three different studies with diclofenac
gel show 26%, 30% and 191% beneﬁt over vehicle gel or
base cream, respectively.58 Extending treatment from 90 to
180 days gave an additional 5% complete clearance without a
signiﬁcant change in adverse effects.91 Follow-up assessment
was limited to 30 days post-treatment in the ﬁrst two studies.
In the third, clearance dropped to 143% at 24 weeks’ follow-
up. Diclofenac 3% gel used as part of a three-armed study
with 5-FU 05% in 10% salicylic acid and vehicle resulted in a
32% rate (17% over vehicle)64 of complete clearance, and a
relapse rate of 19% at 12 months.72 These data indicate mod-
erate efﬁcacy with low morbidity in mild AKs. Treatment was
well tolerated and reported side-effects were mainly pruritus
(41% estimated after 30 days’ treatment) and rash (40% esti-
mated after 60 days).57
8.2.4 Ingenol mebutate cream (150 lg g1 face and scalp,
500 lg g1 limbs and trunk) (strength of recommendation
A, level of evidence 1+)
Ingenol mebutate is a diterpene ester extracted from the plant
Euphorbia peplus. At a cellular level it appears to work through
the disruption of mitochondrial membranes resulting in dam-
age and death of host cells and promotion of cell-speciﬁc anti-
bodies with consequent antibody-dependent, cell-medicated
cellular cytotoxicity. It is licensed for the treatment of nonker-
atotic, nonhypertrophic AK in adults (grade 1 and 2). It is
sold in two strengths (150 and 500 lg g1), with the weaker
one applied 3 days in succession to the chosen area on the
face and scalp and the stronger one applied 2 days in succes-
sion to other sites. Each application is dispensed as a single
tube of cream (three tubes for the face and scalp or two tubes
for other sites) with scope to cover a ﬁeld 5 9 5 cm. Use of
the 150-lg g1 preparation on the face and scalp over 3 days
resulted in a complete cure rate of 40% vs. 117% for vehicle
60 days after starting the treatment in one RCT,92 and 422%
vs. 37% for vehicle in another of similar size.93
Pooled data from two trials of this treatment regimen fol-
lowed successfully treated patients for 12 months. There was
relapse on the head and neck in just over half of the patients
in the following year.94 If residual lesions are re-treated at
8 weeks, clearance at 12 months increases from 27% to
50%.95 Clearance on other body sites is less, at 341% vs.
47% for vehicle after application of the 500-lg g1 cream on
two consecutive days, with relapse in just over half of the
patients at 12 months. Speciﬁc sites such as the back of the
hand are less likely to clear completely, with 185% vs. 0%
for placebo.96
Side-effects peak at 4 days, which is after completion of the
application of treatment. Common effects are redness, scab-
bing, pain and pustules, with most side-effects settling within
28 days.93,94
A 2015 update from the US Food and Drug Administration
highlights the risks of severe adverse reactions, with local and
systemic allergic features and herpes zoster infection. Within
the update they emphasize the need ‘to avoid applying the gel
in, near, and around the mouth, lips and eye area’.97 Extend-
ing the area of treatment of ingenol mebutate to 100 cm2
resulted in no increase in treatment-related adverse events
compared with 25 cm2.98 Clobetasol propionate, used twice
daily for 4 days post-treatment, did not alleviate the symp-
toms or efﬁcacy of ingenol mebutate.99 This may be relevant
to other treatments causing soreness.
8.2.5 Topical retinoids (strength of recommendation B,
level of evidence 1+)
A range of older trials demonstrate a modest beneﬁt with the
use of topical retinoids in AK.100 They may lend some addi-
tional beneﬁt with respect to improvement in lentigines and
reduced wrinkles. Their use is usually sustained rather than
based on a limited course of treatment. Products include ada-
palene 03%, tretinoin 01% and 005% and topical isotreti-
noin 01%. Where adapalene 01% was compared with 03%,
the latter was signiﬁcantly more efﬁcacious in achieving AK
count reduction after 9 months.101 Currently, tretinoin and
isotretinoin are prescribable in the U.K. only in 0025% and
005%
concentrations,
respectively,
as
topical
antibiotic
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 31
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
combinations licensed for use in acne. A Veterans Association
RCT exploring topical retinoid for chemoprevention of skin
cancer was stopped early because of excessive all-cause mortal-
ity in the treatment group at interim analysis.102
Key recommendations: topical therapies
•
Emollient and sunscreen with advice on sun protection
might be a satisfactory treatment for people with ﬂuctu-
ating grade 1 AKs.
•
Education at the outset of using active topical therapies
is important to ensure a full understanding of how to
apply treatment and the nature of the side-effects, which
can be marked.
•
Active topical therapy is suited to use in primary and
secondary care. Where possible, a management plan
should be formulated that enables the patient to be
managed in primary care.
•
Topical therapy is suited to use as lesion- and ﬁeld-
based treatment. Where used for ﬁeld treatment, the size
of the ﬁeld needs to be deﬁned with the patient to
ensure anticipation and tolerance of side-effects.
•
Failure of an individual lesion to respond to topical
therapy indicates a need for further evaluation. This may
include referral from primary care to secondary care or
surgery to obtain histology and extend treatment.
8.3 Cryosurgery (strength of recommendation A, level of
evidence 1++)
Cryosurgery is a long-established treatment for AKs requiring
a cryospray (or cotton wool and orange sticks) and a supply
of liquid nitrogen. Complete clearance rates vary according to
the duration of freeze and the number of treatments, usually
separated by 6–12 weeks. The relationship between duration
of freeze and clearance was examined in a three-dose study
with 12-month follow-up after cryosurgery. A duration < 5 s
showed 39% cure, 5–20 s, 69% cure and > 20 s, 83% cure
on the scalp and face.103 Many more recent studies are based
on head-to-head trials with PDT. A randomized study compar-
ing cryosurgery with PDT in 193 patients indicated an overall
75% complete response rate for cryosurgery in contrast to
69% in those treated with PDT at 3 months.104 The differen-
tial success of the two therapies was more marked for thick
lesions, with 69% showing complete response to cryosurgery
vs. 52% to PDT. A double freeze–thaw cycle was used in this
study in contrast to a single cycle, which, when used in a dif-
ferent study, yielded a 68% response.105
A more recent head-to-head study with methyl aminolae-
vulinate (MAL)-PDT employed cryosurgery (1 9 10-s freeze)
as needed every 3 months for up to four visits with assess-
ment at 12 months. It reported a complete response rate of
85%, with 77% needing only one treatment. Side-effects of
cryosurgery of soreness, blistering, pigmentary change and
scarring contributed to an overall patient preference for
PDT.78 In another study, a double freeze–thaw cycle given just
once with no deﬁned duration provided a complete clearance
rate of 88% as judged at 24 weeks.106 In a right–left, split-
face study comparing MAL-PDT with a cryosurgery double
freeze–thaw cycle retreated at 12 weeks as needed, MAL-PDT
showed 891% cured lesions vs. 861% for cryosurgery, with
no signiﬁcant difference between them. Patient and clinician
assessment of cosmetic outcome were in favour of MAL-
PDT.107
Extensive cryosurgery over large areas has been referred to
as cryopeeling, and can be used to treat ﬁelds of AKs and
background damage.108 Cryosurgery has been described in
combination with topical 5-FU, where the duration of treat-
ment and consequent side-effects of both modalities could be
reduced while maintaining efﬁcacy.109 The pretreatment of AK
with 5-FU 05% for 1 week, prior to treatment of the remain-
ing lesions with cryosurgery at the 1-month follow-up, may
decrease the AK count at 6 months when compared with
cryosurgery and vehicle pretreatment (reduced to 33% vs.
55%, P = 001).110
Cryosurgery is a ﬂexible therapy that requires skill in
administration. With larger doses it is likely to result in loss
of pigment and scarring. Patient counselling is important con-
cerning the short- and long-term side-effects. In particular,
patients should be aware of blistering, oedema, crusting and
soreness. Doses appropriate for AK are usually < 10 s, but still
carry some risk of damage to underlying structures such as
tendons and nerves if applied on the back of the hands. Below
the knee, slow healing can be a problem, particularly in the
older patient group presenting with AK.
8.4 Surgery
There are no trials of surgery for AKs. The nature of the
pathology makes it likely that a surgical procedure able to
remove an area of diseased skin represents an effective ther-
apy. Histological information can be useful in management of
AK. It is unlikely that this would be a ﬁrst-line treatment
unless there was diagnostic uncertainty. Surgery addresses a
focal lesion, and where AK presents in a ﬁeld of actinic dam-
age, it does not address this. A curettage specimen may make
it difﬁcult to determine whether a lesion has an element of
dermal invasion. In some instances a deep shave or formal
excision with histological examination might be preferred. If
curettage is used for a hyperkeratotic AK where SCC is a dif-
ferential diagnosis, it may be warranted to employ two or
three cycles of therapy. This will ensure that if the histology is
that of invasive SCC, or if it is equivocal, the curettage is still
likely to represent adequate treatment. Exceptions would be
where the size, histological type or location of an SCC would
make curettage an unacceptable treatment.111
8.5 Systemic therapy (strength of recommendation C,
level of evidence 2+)
Systemic retinoids have been assessed for their potential role
in suppression or treatment of multiple AKs. Early studies
employing etretinate showed the efﬁcacy of this drug in
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
32 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
double-blind, crossover trials.112 Anecdotal evidence over the
last 20 years suggests that there can be some considerable
morbidity in employing this treatment. In addition, there may
be a rebound effect once the systemic therapy is stopped.
However, these effects were not observed at the 4-month fol-
low-up in the one available report on this subject.113
Use of systemic retinoids may be justiﬁed in very high-risk
patients, such as organ transplant recipients, where there is a
presumed increased risk of progression from AK to SCC.54
Renal transplant patients given oral acitretin 04 mg kg1
showed some immunohistochemical normalization of keratin
expression patterns, but a residue of histological dysplasia sug-
gests potential for relapse when the drug is stopped.114 Low-
dose acitretin is currently given as a treatment option in the
‘European best practice guidelines’ for renal transplant patients
with multiple dysplastic skin lesions.115
An international survey of 28 dermatologists managing skin
disease in organ transplant recipients looked at the use of sys-
temic retinoid.116 In the setting of AK alone, only where the
AK was extensive did the majority (56%) advocate systemic
retinoid. Once patients start getting multiple (more than ﬁve)
SCCs in addition to AK, the rate of prescribing increased to
between 74% and 81% depending on whether the SCCs were
high risk. Acitretin was the most common drug, at a starting
dose of 10 mg (42%) or 25 mg (58%); 12% of respondents
used isotretinoin.
There is little literature on the use of systemic cytotoxic
agents in the immunosuppressed, mainly for the treatment of
SCC but in the setting of extensive AK. Capecitabine given to
15 organ transplant recipients with frequent SCC, BCC and AK
showed reductions in monthly incidence to 22%, 33% and
45% of pretreatment levels, respectively.55 Side-effects resulted
in 33% of patients stopping after 1 year.
The
cyclooxygenase-2
inhibitor,
celecoxib,
taken
for
9 months can reduce the number of BCCs and SCCs over an
11-month period, but does not appear to alter the number of
AKs.117 Overall, it may have a role in high-risk patients with
multiple NMSCs, but it does not have evidence of a role for
AK.118
8.6 Photodynamic therapy (strength of recommendation
A, level of evidence 1+)
Photodynamic therapy combines a dedicated light source of
appropriate wavelengths with the application of a photosensi-
tizing cream to produce apoptosis and necrosis of the target
tissue. Photosensitizing agents include 5-aminolaevulinic acid
(5-ALA) and the methyl ester of 5-ALA, 5-MAL. BF-200ALA
was recently used, showing increased stability and penetra-
tion.119,120
A range of light sources can be used.121 Red narrow-spec-
trum light sources permit shorter illumination times and
appear to give higher response rates.119,120 Current knowledge
of photosensitizers and light sources are detailed in the 2013
European Guidelines for PDT.121 In most situations superﬁcial
crust or keratin is ﬁrst removed with light curettage and
photosensitizing cream, then the agent is applied under occlu-
sion for 3 h prior to irradiation. Surface ﬂuorescence with a
Wood’s lamp can help delineate lesions and identify persistent
disease. Treatment can be painful but can be managed with
cold-air analgesia or nerve blocks.121,122 Erythema and crust-
ing often occur but can be reduced by the use of plaster or
physical sunscreens.123
Four studies report PDT to be more effective than pla-
cebo.105,107,124,125 Three were randomized and one double
blinded, with 80–211 subjects. Efﬁcacy rates appear better for
the face and scalp than the forearm and hands,126 but there
are no studies comparing the two sites. Response rates in the
face and scalp range from 69% to 93%. Follow-up reported
up to 24% recurrence at 12 months in an open-label study.127
There may be an increased response of PDT with fraction-
ated light128 and pretreatment with laser.129 Both claimed bet-
ter responses, but patient numbers were small and the side-
effects greater with laser pretreatment. In a side-to-side com-
parative study of PDT vs. CO2 laser treatment they were of
equal efﬁcacy but patient preference was for PDT.130
Three open-label RCTs compared MAL-PDT with cryosur-
gery.
Two
freeze–thaw
cycles
were
comparable
in
one
study104 and inferior in terms of relapse in another.107 A sin-
gle cycle was inferior in the third study.105 The efﬁcacy of
PDT was conﬁrmed in a meta-analysis in 2014.131 PDT has
also been compared side to side in trials with 5-FU.66 A
right–left comparison of AK treatment on the backs of the
hands showed a similar response for PDT and 5-FU, clearing
lesions in 73% and 70% of cases, respectively. Three studies
showed no difference between PDT and imiquimod.132–134
In a randomized study of 30 patients given up to two treat-
ments with ALA-PDT or one to two courses of imiquimod
(three times a week for 4 weeks), equivalent responses were
seen
6 months
after
completion
of
treatment
(65%
vs.
55%).134 PDT was more effective for grade 2 lesions.
A thin, self-adhesive patch has been developed for self-
application.135,136
In
a
multicentre
RCT
involving
449
patients,
efﬁcacy
with
active
treatment
was
82%
after
12 weeks compared with 19% for placebo and 77% for cryo-
surgery. It is advocated as allowing self-application and avoid-
ing the need for pretreatment curettage.
Daylight PDT involves the application of MAL to the skin
without occlusion and subsequent exposure to ambient day-
light. A high-SPF sunscreen without mineral ﬁlters is applied
15 min before the photosensitizing cream. Thirty minutes
later the patient spends 2 h outdoors.
Five RCTs in Europe and Australia have conﬁrmed the efﬁ-
cacy of daylight PDT compared with conventional PDT.137–141
This was in mild (grade 1) to moderate (grade 2) lesions on
the face and scalp. Clearance rates of 70–89% were reported.
In European studies daylight PDT can be performed in all
weather conditions,141 but temperatures > 10 °C are advised
for patient comfort. Consensus guidelines have also been pro-
duced.142–144
One comparative study was a right–left comparison of PDT
with ingenol mebutate in grade 1 and 2 lesions (27 patients).
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 33
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
In both there was a 40% complete response rate, but PDT was
better tolerated.145
8.7 Laser therapy (strength of recommendation B, level
of evidence 1+)
In principal, dermabrasion, chemical peels and laser treatment
should treat AKs, as skin is destroyed to a controlled depth.
The majority of studies treat ﬁeld change as well as individual
lesions. These physical therapies come with signiﬁcant risk of
long-term side-effects including hypopigmentation and persis-
tent erythema and scarring. The risk of such problems is
greater with ablative rather than nonablative laser techniques,
which also require anti-infective prophylaxis.146
There are no studies comparing laser treatment with no
treatment or placebo.
A good-quality, prospective, randomized study of 5-FU
(twice daily for 4 weeks) vs. erbium-doped yttrium alu-
minium garnet (Er:YAG) laser in 55 patients demonstrated
signiﬁcantly fewer recurrences in the laser group at 6 and
12 months, but more erythema and hypopigmentation in the
long term. No data were reported on clearance at completion
of treatment.147
A second prospective randomized trial of CO2 laser vs. TCA
30% vs. 5-FU (twice daily for 3 weeks) with small patient
numbers showed a signiﬁcant clearance of lesions with all
interventions at 3 months. The authors also claimed a delayed
time to recurrence of NMSC compared with controls, but the
controls were the dropouts from the study.148
Three retrospective case studies of CO2 with or without Er:
YAG lasers show clearance and reduced AKs at follow-up.149
Two of these studies demonstrate 80% and 87% clearance at
12 months.150,151 A split-face study of ablative, fractionated
(i.e.
multiple
pinpoint
treatments)
CO2
laser
treatment
demonstrated only a short-term reduction in the number of
AKs, not sustained over 3 months.152 One pilot study of non-
ablative fractional laser in 10 patients reported 46% clearance
at 6 months and claimed minimal acute and long-term side-
effects.153
Dermabrasion in open studies clears AKs on the face and
scalp. Coleman et al. treated 23 patients, 96% of whom were
clear at 6 months and 54% at 5 years.154 Winton and Salasche
treated ﬁve patients successfully, with complete clearance.155
A simple, prospective case series describing treatment of
individual AKs with phenol 100% applied once a month for
up to a maximum of 8 months in 32 patients reported no
recurrence at 12 months.37
8.8 Combination treatment
There are many trials of combination therapy in the treatment
of AK; they are of two kinds. The ﬁrst is a serial approach
where one treatment is advocated to follow the other depend-
ing on outcome, or as a speciﬁc regimen of pretreatment with
the possibility that the effects of one treatment will maximize,
or consolidate, the response. The second approach is to use a
product with two active ingredients where, for instance, sali-
cylic acid 10% may break down surface keratin and improve
penetration and hence the efﬁcacy of 5-FU 05% (see Sec-
tion 8.2.1).
Salicylic acid ointment is sometimes used as a preliminary
to topical 5-FU to remove overlying keratin. Salicylic acid
50% in croton oil has been described as a treatment for AKs
when used in combination with TCA 20% and pretreatment
with topical tretinoin as a serial regimen for facial peel.39 The
ointment base may be acting as an emollient, with some level
of success for grade 1 AK3,57 (see Section 8.1.1).
In a case series, patients were pretreated with diclofenac 3%
gel for 12 weeks followed by cryosurgery for the 29% with
residual
lesions.
This
demonstrated
an
overall
effective
response to this combined management approach, with com-
plete clearance maintained for 6–20 months (mean 10).156 An
open-label multicentre trial of cryosurgery (freeze time of 4–
10 s) followed by diclofenac 3% gel 15 days later for the next
3 months vs. cryosurgery alone found that complete clearance
increased from 21% to 46% with the addition of diclofenac.
The clearance rates for a target lesion were greater at 32% vs.
64%.157 A small, right–left-hand study with 4 weeks’ pretreat-
ment using diclofenac 3% gel and PDT compared with pla-
cebo gel and PDT demonstrated a greater decrease in the
number and thickness of AKs on the side with diclofenac pre-
treatment, at 12 months.158
Diclofenac 3% as pretreatment for 5-FU 05% in 10% sali-
cylic acid is also reported as an effective sequential regi-
men.156
There
are
reports
of
5–7 days
of
5-FU
5%
pretreatment also being safe and effective in combination with
cryosurgery110 or PDT159 or, alternatively, in combination
with glycolic peels.38 PDT followed by imiquimod twice a
week for 16 weeks was beneﬁcial over PDT and subsequent
vehicle cream alone when undertaken in a split-face study.160
The complete clearance rate was not reported, but the percent-
age reduction in count was signiﬁcant at 899% in the com-
bined treatment side vs. 745% on the side treated with PDT
alone. With PDT as the variable rather than imiquimod, PDT
did not appear to improve the efﬁcacy of imiquimod alone,
although the study was small. Similarly, adding imiquimod
5% two times a week for 8 weeks to cryosurgery does not
appear to improve on cryosurgery alone.
An alternative regimen has been studied for hypertrophic
AKs on the forearms and the dorsa of the hands. Imiquimod
375% was used following a double, 5-s freeze–thaw cycle,
randomized to the right or left arm and applied in up to two
sachets per night for 2 weeks, followed by a 2-week break
and a further 2 weeks. The comparison was cryosurgery alone
on the other arm. Complete cure was not an end point, but
there was a greater level of clearance in the combination arm
(76%) than the control arm (38%). This difference did not
emerge until 10 weeks after cryosurgery (4 weeks after com-
pletion of imiquimod), and maximized at the end of assess-
ment at 14 weeks.87 Randomizing to 5-FU 05%, 1 week
after cryosurgery resulted in nonsigniﬁcant improvement over
cryosurgery alone.161
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
34 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 16 ===
Key recommendations: physical and systemic therapies
•
Education at the outset of using physical therapies is
important to ensure a full understanding of the side-
effects, which can be marked and include scarring and
altered pigmentation.
•
Cryosurgery is a ﬂexible and effective form of lesion-
based physical therapy that removes the patient involve-
ment in their own care and requires administration in a
service with cryosurgery.
•
Curettage can be warranted for thicker (grade 3) AKs,
where they are resistant to topical therapy and where there
is suspicion that they may represent early SCC. Histology
must always be obtained. Diagnostic biopsy may be war-
ranted on the same basis, but is subject to sampling error.
•
PDT is an effective treatment for conﬂuent AKs, such as
on the scalp, which are difﬁcult to manage or resistant
to treatment in the absence of invasive disease.
•
PDT has low scarring potential and less risk of poor
healing in comparison with other physical therapies at
vulnerable sites such as the lower leg.
•
Pretreatment with topical therapy can increase the efﬁ-
cacy of physical therapies.
•
Failure of an individual lesion to respond to physical
therapy indicates a need for further evaluation. This
could include formal excision.
•
Systemic therapy is usually given in the context of mul-
tiple grade 3 AKs, a history of serial SCCs and immuno-
suppression.
Therapy
might
be
preventive
with
a
retinoid and should be undertaken as part of a multidis-
ciplinary decision, which might include alternatives such
as the reduction of immunosuppression.
9.0 Special considerations
9.1 Body sites (strength of recommendation C, level of
evidence 2+)
The data from available treatments indicate that some treatments
are more adaptable than others and that morbidity varies with
location. The balance of issues determined by location, charac-
teristics of the AKs and nature of the patient are summarized in
Table 3. The scoring is based on the authors’ evaluation of efﬁ-
cacy, ease of use, morbidity and cost-beneﬁt.
9.1.1 Periocular
The main consideration for treatment of periocular AK is the
risk of adverse events involving the eye. All products licensed
for treatment of AK have cautions in the PIL and/or summary
of product characteristics concerning getting treatment in the
eye. Creams used near the eye can smear into it, and inﬂam-
mation caused by local destructive or inﬂammatory treatments
such as cryosurgery may impinge upon the eye either directly
or indirectly. Typically, liquid nitrogen is used with a contact
probe, ensuring that cold vapour does not damage the eye.162
Studies undertaken in ophthalmology suggest that treatment
is possible with close supervision. Treatment can be combined
with care of the eye. In a case series of 14 patients treating
periocular skin with 5-FU 5% twice daily for 2 weeks, antibi-
otic ointment was coprescribed and used until the area had
healed.163 Six of the 14 AKs were on the upper eyelid and
nine abutted a lid margin. Five patients required a second
course of treatment, but overall clearance was complete in all
cases and remained so for a mean follow-up period of
38 months. Two patients had transient inﬂammatory side-
effects affecting the eye. The potential precision of application
of 5-FU 05% in 10% salicylic acid in a collodion base might
make it a useful alternative to cream formulation, but there
are no data on this.
A retrospective study of the use of imiquimod 5% cream
for a range of periocular actinic lesions identiﬁed 47 patients
mainly with AK, mainly on the lower lid.164 Conjunctivitis
occurred in 15 and six had ocular stinging, with conjunctivitis
in three for over 2 weeks. Antibiotics were needed in three,
for preseptal cellulitis in two of them. Nine patients discontin-
ued imiquimod due to ocular irritation and conjunctivitis, of
whom four patients recommenced and ﬁnished the treatment
after a rest period. At a mean follow-up of 16 weeks, 34
(72%) patients had clinical clearance of the periocular lesions
and no patient had any residual ophthalmic side-effects from
imiquimod.
There is no good literature on diclofenac gel or ingenol
mebutate, but both the PIL and product licence emphasize the
importance of avoiding contact of the product with the eyes.
9.1.2 Ears
The ear is a common site for the presentation of AK and
SCC. The risk of metastasis is higher when SCC arises on
the ear. This means that the context of treatment is slightly
different at this site than at others. The wish to treat AK
with a view to avoiding evolution to SCC may be a greater
priority.
Histological
diagnosis
of
any
thicker
AKs
to
differentiate them from invasive SCC by shave biopsy or
excision is recommended. These interventions may represent
treatment of such AKs or a preliminary to treatment of
SCC.
9.1.3 Forearm and hands
Actinic keratoses on the dorsum of the hand are often multiple
and hyperkeratotic. Early management with topical therapy or
PDT may reduce the need for surgical interventions later. The
skin is more tolerant of the side-effects of inﬂammatory treat-
ments and hence permits prolongation of the course of treat-
ment in some instances. This may be required due to the
thicker skin or hindrance to treatment penetration by keratin
in thicker AKs. Combinations of salicylic acid and 5-FU or
curettage can be useful elements of treatment for the grade 3
AKs found on the forearm and back of hands (see Sec-
tion 8.8)
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 35
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 17 ===
9.1.4 Below the knee
Actinic keratosis below the knee are often mixed with SCC
in situ, a disposition to NMSC, including atypical BCCs and
other actinic changes. They are a feature of elderly sun-
exposed legs and often coincide with decreasing ability to
heal. Treatments need to ﬁnd the right balance between
managing
the
disease
and
causing
complications,
which
include nonhealing and soft-tissue infection. Treatment is
likely to be intermittent, low intensity and chronic; most
reports are case series with small numbers. Infrequent or
pulsed application of 5-FU has been employed,68 as has more
intensive treatment using 5-FU chemowraps.165 This entails
the application of 5-FU 5% once a week under an occlusive
bandage for 7 days over a period of 4–8 weeks. Gaps in treat-
ment can be needed where skin breakage develops.
Diclofenac 3% gel might be employed with the expectation
of fewer side-effects, but possibly less beneﬁt. PDT is used on
the lower legs, particularly where there may be problems with
healing.
Key recommendations: special sites (Table 2)
•
Poor healing sites such as below the knee in the elderly
require ﬂexible regimens, heightened supervision and
consideration of less destructive treatments such as PDT.
•
The ears are commonly affected by AK and require
attention early in respect to all modalities of treatment,
including preventive action with a broad-brimmed hat
and sunscreen.
•
Grade 3 AKs on the ear may warrant curettage early to
obtain histology and avoid missed early SCC.
•
The skin of the dorsum of the hands can be more resis-
tant to treatment than the head and neck, and warrants
extended periods of topical therapy.
•
All licensed treatments include warnings about use near
the eye. Periocular AK needs careful assessment in sec-
ondary care. Topical treatments may be possible, but
clear guidance and supervision are needed.
9.2 Immunosuppressed patients
Data on the epidemiology and natural progression of AK in
the immunosuppressed are less detailed than in the normal
population. The risk of progression to SCC is likely to be
higher, and therefore there is a greater need for treatment of
AK. Wallingford et al. highlighted the need to monitor trans-
plant patients with ﬁeld-change AK disease.166 Within a large
cohort of renal transplant patients, nearly one-third were
found to have AKs. Of these, half were isolated AKs and half
were AKs within a ﬁeld of AK and actinic change. In the sub-
sequent year, the rate of development of SCC associated with
the isolated AK was 7%, in comparison with 21% of those
with ﬁeld change, most of which (11 of 15) arose within the
ﬁeld. Other differences between the two groups were that the
patients with isolated AKs tended to be transplanted later in
life and had a shorter duration of immunosuppression.166
Anecdotal and limited trial data suggest that treatments for
AKs in transplant patients are less effective than in the general
population,53 perhaps because AKs are more proliferative and
hyperkeratotic in this group or because new lesions appear
rapidly in the treated site. One study in transplant recipients
failed to demonstrate a reduction in the development of sub-
sequent skin cancers in those areas of skin previously treated
for AKs with PDT.51 Where safety studies are undertaken in
transplant patients they appear to demonstrate reactions similar
to those in nontransplant patients.167
9.3 Follow-up
There are no data concerning the beneﬁt of follow-up in
patients with AKs. Patients and their carers should be educated
regarding changes that suggest malignancy. Those at high risk
of NMSC, such as organ transplant recipients, may warrant
follow-up; the presence of at least 10 AKs is an indicator of
this risk.18
Where treatments are likely to require evaluation and
adjustment, follow-up in primary, intermediate or secondary
care is needed. This could be by any member of the health-
care team with validated competencies in the safe and effective
management of AK. Current NHS guidance suggests that
patients with AK should be managed in primary care. Where
this is a sole pathology and not complicated by NMSC or
other factors, the patient should be provided with information
to enable ongoing diagnosis and care.
9.4 Treatment failure
All treatments have some risk of failing to achieve clearance of
an individual lesion. Where this is the case, the reason for fail-
ure needs assessment, where one of the possible explanations
might be that the diagnosis is incorrect. Lesions within the
differential diagnosis of AK include SCC in situ, invasive SCC,
seborrhoeic keratosis, actinic porokeratosis, viral wart and
others. Depending on the outcome of this clinical assessment,
treatment might be escalated in intensity, duration or type, or
the lesion might be biopsied or treated surgically.
An alternative interpretation of failure is that the patient
continues to get new AKs. This is not true failure, but more
an illustration of the nature of the disease. Once someone is
diagnosed with AK, they are likely to need intermittent, life-
long treatment.
10.0 Economic considerations
Table 3 summarizes the cost-effectiveness of therapy.
It is likely that the number of treatment episodes for AK
will increase. Australian Medicare data demonstrate an increase
of 160% between 1994 and 2012 in claims for use of cryo-
surgery to treat 10 or more AKs. Many studies have tried to
assess the cost-effectiveness of treatment for AK.168–171 How-
ever, the methods of calculation and the different healthcare
systems and their ways of funding prevent comparison.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
36 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 18 ===
Two nonindustry studies have been published from the
U.K. Wilson tried to compare the cost of PDT and imiquimod,
taking into account quality of life.172 The author comments
that a head-to-head study of imiquimod vs. PDT was required
to enable more accurate calculations. Muston et al. used efﬁ-
cacy data from the literature to assess the cost–beneﬁt ratio
and reported that the costs and effectiveness of PDT compare
well with other treatments for AK.173
At a practical local level, prescriptions that enable the
patient to re-treat, extend treatment or treat new areas have an
inherent economic value and enable the patient to exercise
their judgement. Imiquimod and ingenol mebutate are dis-
pensed in aliquot packages that are single-treatment doses and
provided in a number to complete a course of treatment. This
tightly deﬁnes the cost per course of treatment and the terri-
tory that can be treated. By contrast, Gibbs and Davis noted
that patients used only 31% of the content of a tube of 5-FU
5% in a single course of treatment, which enables substantial
ﬂexibility in the course and territory of treatment.174,175
11.0 Future directions
Future directions need to address the human element of bear-
ing the long-term diagnosis of AK and the technical challenges
of treating AK effectively with low morbidity and acceptable
cost. The clinical challenge comprises an ageing person with
barely symptomatic dry areas of skin. Education, prevention
and empowerment at this stage may help avoid the situation
in 10–20 years where multiple untreated AKs accumulate and
the patient presents with advanced AKs mingled with possible
SCCs. The earliest stage in the prevention strategy shares
ground with strategies for the avoidance of skin cancer, and
equally shares its concerns of compromised vitamin D levels
and loss of the indirect beneﬁts of UV exposure. Collaborative
work between patient groups and primary and secondary care
should aim to ﬁnd a suitable balanced approach to global care
of patients with this diagnosis.
Technical assessment of the efﬁcacy of treatments should
continue, but using a standardized model of reporting. Review
of data of AK treatment illustrates the variety of end points in
studies, which makes comparison between them difﬁcult.
These include percentage clearance of lesion number within a
person, percentage of people within a study having complete
clearance, percentage of target lesions clearing, and mathemat-
ical models with projected AK behaviour based on within-
study data.
The time points at which these measures are deﬁned also
vary and have the scope to alter the result greatly. Treatments
have optimum times when their outcome is at its best, which
can be up to 10 weeks after completion of treatment in the
case of imiquimod. Equally, in the setting of a chronic relaps-
ing and remitting disease, 12- and 24-month evaluation
points are relevant. As AK is a multifocal manifestation of sun
damage, AKs within a zone at 12 months may represent a
mix of relapse and new lesions, which can further complicate
quantitative assessment. Examples of all this are found in the
studies referenced in this guideline.
Areas of uncertainty in the treatment of AK that require fur-
ther studies include (i) measurement and relevance of vitamin
D and (ii) prospective studies looking at the effect of treat-
ment of AKs on subsequent SCC reduction.
12.0 Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive patients with AK is there clear docu-
mentation of:
•
the location of the AKs indicated on a drawing or a
head and neck or body map;
•
the grade or bulk of the AKs (e.g. grade 1, 2, 3 or
descriptive; see Table 1);
•
treatment modality and dosage;
•
information (e.g. a PIL or other suitable source of infor-
mation) provided to the patient on side-effects of treat-
ment, where relevant;
•
the patient having received information on the name
and nature of their diagnosis;
•
information provided for the GP in diagnosis and future
management, in primary care where relevant.
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient, and to
allow
benchmarking
between
different
units.
However,
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months.
13.0 Summary
The ﬁndings are summarized in Table 2. See the text for
details of evidence.
Actinic keratoses are a multifocal manifestation of sun dam-
age, comprising a spectrum of clinical complaint and pathol-
ogy. They are relapsing and remitting and constitute a chronic
disease. Most patients can be diagnosed and managed in pri-
mary care. In many instances, management may entail little or
no medical treatment other than advice on sun avoidance and
self-monitoring. Where there is clinical concern or the patient
speciﬁcally wants treatment, therapy can be employed taking
into consideration the speciﬁcs of the situation. If there is
diagnostic concern or failure to respond to ﬁrst-line treatment,
a histological specimen, such as obtained at curettage, shave
or formal excision, may be diagnostic and curative. Where
AKs are multiple or conﬂuent, at sites of poor healing or with
poor response to standard therapies, PDT may be helpful. Such
patients may also warrant long-term follow-up for the associ-
ated increased risk of NMSC.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to everyone who commented on the
draft during the consultation period.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 37
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 19 ===
References
1 Bell HK, Ormerod AD. Writing a British Association of Dermatol-
ogists clinical guideline: an update on the process and guidance
for authors. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:725–8.
2 Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
3 Olsen EA, Abernethy ML, Kulp-Shorten C et al. A double-blind,
vehicle-controlled study evaluating masoprocol cream in the
treatment of actinic keratoses on the head and neck. J Am Acad
Dermatol 1991; 24:738–43.
4 Vatve M, Ortonne JP, Birch-Machin MA et al. Management of
ﬁeld change in actinic keratosis. Br J Dermatol 2007; 157(Suppl.
2):21–4.
5 Freeman RG. Carcinogenic effects of solar radiation and preven-
tion measures. Cancer 1968; 21:1114–20.
6 Ziegler A, Jonason AS, Leffell DJ et al. Sunburn and p53 in the
onset of skin cancer. Nature 1994; 372:773–6.
7 Barr BB, Benton EC, McLaren K et al. Papillomavirus infection and
skin cancer in renal allograft recipients. Lancet 1989; 2:224–5.
8 Baudouin C, Charveron M, Tarroux R et al. Environmental pollu-
tants and skin cancer. Cell Biol Toxicol 2002; 18:341–8.
9 Wong ST, Chan HL, Teo SK. The spectrum of cutaneous and
internal malignancies in chronic arsenic toxicity. Singapore Med J
1998; 39:171–3.
10 Norris JF. Sunscreens, suntans, and skin cancer. Local councils
should
remove
sunbeds
from
leisure
centres.
BMJ
1996;
313:941–2.
11 Bajdik CD, Gallagher RP, Astrakianakis G et al. Non-solar ultravio-
let radiation and the risk of basal and squamous cell skin cancer.
Br J Cancer 1996; 73:1612–4.
12 Roest MA, Keane FM, Agnew K et al. Multiple squamous skin car-
cinomas following excess sunbed use. J R Soc Med 2001; 94:636–
7.
13 Atkins D, Bang RH, Sternberg MR et al. Reliable methods to eval-
uate the burden of actinic keratoses. J Invest Dermatol 2006;
126:591–4.
14 O’Beirn SFO, Judge P, Maccon CF et al. Skin cancer in County
Galway, Ireland. In: Proceedings of the Sixth National Cancer Conference,
sponsored by the American Cancer Society Inc. and the National Cancer Institute,
September 1968. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1970; 489–500.
15 Harvey I, Frankel S, Marks R et al. Non-melanoma skin cancer
and solar keratoses. I. Methods and descriptive results of the
South Wales Skin Cancer Study. Br J Cancer 1996; 74:1302–7.
16 Memon AA, Tomenson JA, Bothwell J et al. Prevalence of solar
damage and actinic keratosis in a Merseyside population. Br J Der-
matol 2000; 142:1154–9.
17 Eder J, Prillinger K, Korn A et al. Prevalence of actinic keratosis
among dermatology outpatients in Austria. Br J Dermatol 2014;
171:1415–21.
18 Flohil SC, van der Leest RJ, Dowlatshahi EA et al. Prevalence of
actinic keratosis and its risk factors in the general population: the
Rotterdam Study. J Invest Dermatol 2013; 133:1971–8.
19 Marks R, Foley P, Goodman G et al. Spontaneous remission of
solar keratoses: the case for conservative management. Br J Derma-
tol 1986; 115:649–55.
20 Criscione VD, Weinstock MA, Naylor MF et al. Actinic keratoses:
natural history and risk of malignant transformation in the Veter-
ans Affairs Topical Tretinoin Chemoprevention Trial. Cancer 2009;
115:2523–30.
21 Marks R, Rennie G, Selwood TS. Malignant transformation of
solar keratoses to squamous cell carcinoma. Lancet 1988; 1:795–7.
22 Dodson JM, DeSpain J, Hewett JE et al. Malignant potential of
actinic keratoses and the controversy over treatment. A patient-
oriented perspective. Arch Dermatol 1991; 127:1029–31.
23 Foote JA, Harris RB, Giuliano AR et al. Predictors for cutaneous
basal- and squamous-cell carcinoma among actinically damaged
adults. Int J Cancer 2001; 95:7–11.
24 Chen GJ, Feldman SR, Williford PM et al. Clinical diagnosis of
actinic keratosis identiﬁes an elderly population at high risk of
developing skin cancer. Dermatol Surg 2005; 31:43–7.
25 Lambert SR, Mladkova N, Gulati A et al. Key differences identiﬁed
between actinic keratosis and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma
by transcriptome proﬁling. Br J Cancer 2014; 110:520–9.
26 Werner RN, Sammain A, Erdmann R et al. The natural history of
actinic
keratosis:
a
systematic
review.
Br
J
Dermatol
2013;
169:502–18.
27 Janda M. Teledermatology: its use in the detection and manage-
ment of actinic keratosis. Curr Probl Dermatol 2015; 46:101–7.
28 Huerta-Brogeras M, Olmos O, Borbujo J et al. Validation of der-
moscopy as a real-time noninvasive diagnostic imaging technique
for actinic keratosis. Arch Dermatol 2012; 148:1159–64.
29 Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network. Management of dia-
betes: a national clinical guideline. Available at: www.sign.ac.uk/
pdf/sign116.pdf (last accessed 16 September 2016).
30 Shigaki C, Kruse RL, Mehr D et al. Motivation and diabetes self-
management. Chronic Illn 2010; 6:202–14.
31 Stockﬂeth E. The paradigm shift in treating actinic keratosis: a
comprehensive strategy. J Drugs Dermatol 2012; 11:1462–7.
32 Gupta AK, Paquet M, Villanueva E et al. Interventions for actinic
keratoses. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012; 12:CD004415.
33 Esmann S, Vinding GR, Christensen KB et al. Assessing the inﬂu-
ence of actinic keratosis on patients’ quality of life: the AKQoL
questionnaire. Br J Dermatol 2013; 168:277–83.
34 Esmann S. Patients’ perspectives on actinic keratosis. Curr Probl Der-
matol 2015; 46:8–13.
35 Pomerantz H, Hogan D, Eilers D et al. Long-term efﬁcacy of topi-
cal ﬂuorouracil cream, 5%, for treating actinic keratosis: a ran-
domized clinical trial. JAMA Dermatol 2015; 151:952–60.
36 Witheiler DD, Lawrence N, Cox SE et al. Long-term efﬁcacy and
safety of Jessner’s solution and 35% trichloroacetic acid versus
5% ﬂuorouracil in the treatment of widespread facial actinic ker-
atoses. Dermatol Surg 1997; 23:191–6.
37 Kaminaka C, Yamamoto Y, Yonei N et al. Phenol peels as a novel ther-
apeutic approach for actinic keratosis and Bowen disease: prospective
pilot trial with assessment of clinical, histologic, and immunohisto-
chemical correlations. J Am Acad Dermatol 2009; 60:615–25.
38 Ditre CM. Treatment of actinic keratosis and photodamaged skin
with 5-ﬂuorouracil 5% cream and glycolic acid peels. Cosmet Der-
matol 2004; 17:25–7.
39 Swinehart JM. Salicylic acid ointment peeling of the hands and
forearms. Effective nonsurgical removal of pigmented lesions and
actinic damage. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1992; 18:495–8.
40 Werner RN, Stockﬂeth E, Connolly SM et al. Evidence- and con-
sensus-based (S3) Guidelines for the Treatment of Actinic Kerato-
sis
–
International
League
of
Dermatological
Societies
in
cooperation with the European Dermatology Forum – short ver-
sion. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015; 29:2069–79.
41 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Improving
outcomes for people with skin tumours including melanoma.
Available
at:
https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/csg8
(last
accessed 16 September 2016).
42 Chetty P, Choi F, Mitchell T. Primary care review of actinic ker-
atosis and its therapeutic options: a global perspective. Dermatol
Ther (Heidelb) 2015; 5:19–35.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
38 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 20 ===
43 Englert C, Hughes B. A review of actinic keratosis for the nurse
practitioner: diagnosis, treatment, and clinical pearls. J Am Acad
Nurse Pract 2012; 24:290–6.
44 Primary Care Dermatology Society. Actinic (solar) keratosis: pri-
mary care treatment pathway. Available at: http://www.pcds.or-
g.uk/ee/images/uploads/general/Actinic_%28Solar%29_Kerato-
sis_Primary_Care_Treatment_Pathway.pdf
(last
accessed
16
September 2016).
45 Primary Care Dermatology Society. Actinic keratosis (syn. solar
keratosis).
Available
at:
http://www.pcds.org.uk/clinical-gui-
dance/actinic-keratosis-syn.-solar-keratosis
(last
accessed
16
September 2016).
46 Thompson SC, Jolley D, Marks R. Reduction of solar keratoses by
regular sunscreen use. N Engl J Med 1993; 329:1147–51.
47 Naylor MF, Boyd A, Smith DW et al. High sun protection factor
sunscreens in the suppression of actinic neoplasia. Arch Dermatol
1995; 131:170–5.
48 Green A, Williams G, Neale R et al. Daily sunscreen application
and betacarotene supplementation in prevention of basal-cell and
squamous-cell carcinomas of the skin: a randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 1999; 354:723–9.
49 Ulrich C, Jurgensen JS, Degen A et al. Prevention of non-mela-
noma skin cancer in organ transplant patients by regular use of a
sunscreen: a 24 months, prospective, case–control study. Br J Der-
matol 2009; 161(Suppl. 3):78–84.
50 Euvrard S, Kanitakis J, Claudy A. Skin cancers after organ trans-
plantation. N Engl J Med 2003; 348:1681–91.
51 de Graaf YG, Kennedy C, Wolterbeek R et al. Photodynamic ther-
apy does not prevent cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma in
organ-transplant recipients: results of a randomized-controlled
trial. J Invest Dermatol 2006; 126:569–74.
52 Harwood CA, Mesher D, McGregor JM et al. A surveillance model
for skin cancer in organ transplant recipients: a 22-year prospec-
tive study in an ethnically diverse population. Am J Transplant
2013; 13:119–29.
53 Dragieva G, Hafner J, Dummer R et al. Topical photodynamic
therapy in the treatment of actinic keratoses and Bowen’s disease
in transplant recipients. Transplantation 2004; 77:115–21.
54 McNamara IR, Muir J, Galbraith AJ. Acitretin for prophylaxis of
cutaneous malignancies after cardiac transplantation. J Heart Lung
Transplant 2002; 21:1201–5.
55 Jirakulaporn T, Endrizzi B, Lindgren B et al. Capecitabine for skin
cancer prevention in solid organ transplant recipients. Clin Trans-
plant 2011; 25:541–8.
56 Black HS, Herd JA, Goldberg LH et al. Effect of a low-fat diet on
the incidence of actinic keratosis. N Engl J Med 1994; 330:1272–5.
57 Rivers JK, Arlette J, Shear N et al. Topical treatment of actinic ker-
atoses with 3.0% diclofenac in 2.5% hyaluronan gel. Br J Dermatol
2002; 146:94–100.
58 Akarsu S, Aktan S, Atahan A et al. Comparison of topical 3%
diclofenac sodium gel and 5% imiquimod cream for the treat-
ment of actinic keratoses. Clin Exp Dermatol 2011; 36:479–84.
59 Szeimies RM, Gerritsen MJ, Gupta G et al. Imiquimod 5% cream
for the treatment of actinic keratosis: results from a phase III,
randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, clinical trial with
histology. J Am Acad Dermatol 2004; 51:547–55.
60 Jorizzo J, Dinehart S, Matheson R et al. Vehicle-controlled, dou-
ble-blind, randomized study of imiquimod 5% cream applied
3 days per week in one or two courses of treatment for actinic
keratoses on the head. J Am Acad Dermatol 2007; 57:265–8.
61 Darlington S, Williams G, Neale R et al. A randomized controlled trial
to assess sunscreen application and beta carotene supplementation in
the prevention of solar keratoses. Arch Dermatol 2003; 139:451–5.
62 Eaglstein WH, Weinstein GD, Frost P. Fluorouracil: mechanism
of action in human skin and actinic keratoses. I. Effect on DNA
synthesis in vivo. Arch Dermatol 1970; 101:132–9.
63 Ingenol mebutate (Picato) for actinic keratosis. Med Lett Drugs Ther
2012; 54:35–6.
64 Stockﬂeth E, Kerl H, Zwingers T et al. Low-dose 5-ﬂuorouracil in
combination with salicylic acid as a new lesion-directed option
to treat topically actinic keratoses: histological and clinical study
results. Br J Dermatol 2011; 165:1101–8.
65 Gupta AK, Paquet M. Network meta-analysis of the outcome ‘par-
ticipant complete clearance’ in non-immunosuppressed partici-
pants of eight interventions for actinic keratosis: a follow-up on a
Cochrane review. Br J Dermatol 2013; 169:250–9.
66 Kurwa HA, Yong-Gee SA, Seed PT et al. A randomized paired
comparison of photodynamic therapy and topical 5-ﬂuorouracil
in the treatment of actinic keratoses. J Am Acad Dermatol 1999;
41:414–8.
67 Robinson TA, Kligman AM. Treatment of solar keratoses of the
extremities with retinoic acid and 5-ﬂuorouracil. Br J Dermatol
1975; 92:703–6.
68 Pearlman DL. Weekly pulse dosing: effective and comfortable
topical 5-ﬂuorouracil treatment of multiple facial actinic ker-
atoses. J Am Acad Dermatol 1991; 25:665–7.
69 Epstein E. Does intermittent ‘pulse’ topical 5-ﬂuorouracil therapy
allow destruction of actinic keratoses without signiﬁcant inﬂam-
mation? J Am Acad Dermatol 1998; 38:77–80.
70 Jury CS, Ramraka-Jones VS, Gudi V et al. A randomized trial of
topical 5% 5-ﬂuorouracil (Efudix cream) in the treatment of acti-
nic keratoses comparing daily with weekly treatment. Br J Dermatol
2005; 153:808–10.
71 Schlaak M, Simon JC. Topical treatment of actinic keratoses with
low-dose 5-ﬂuorouracil in combination with salicylic acid – pilot
study. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2010; 8:174–8.
72 Stockﬂeth E, Zwingers T, Willers C. Recurrence rates and patient
assessed outcomes of 0.5% 5-ﬂuorouracil in combination with sali-
cylic acid treating actinic keratoses. Eur J Dermatol 2012; 22:370–4.
73 Szeimies RM, Dirschka T, Prechtl A et al. Efﬁcacy of low-dose 5-
ﬂuorouracil/salicylic acid in actinic keratoses in relation to treat-
ment duration. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2015; 13:430–8.
74 Hadley G, Derry S, Moore RA. Imiquimod for actinic keratosis:
systematic
review and meta-analysis.
J Invest
Dermatol 2006;
126:1251–5.
75 Stockﬂeth E, Meyer T, Benninghoff B et al. A randomized, dou-
ble-blind, vehicle-controlled study to assess 5% imiquimod cream
for the treatment of multiple actinic keratoses. Arch Dermatol 2002;
138:1498–502.
76 Korman N, Moy R, Ling M et al. Dosing with 5% imiquimod
cream 3 times per week for the treatment of actinic keratosis:
results of two phase 3, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
vehicle-controlled trials. Arch Dermatol 2005; 141:467–73.
77 Alomar A, Bichel J, McRae S. Vehicle-controlled, randomized,
double-blind study to assess safety and efﬁcacy of imiquimod 5%
cream applied once daily 3 days per week in one or two courses
of treatment of actinic keratoses on the head. Br J Dermatol 2007;
157:133–41.
78 Foley P, Merlin K, Cumming S et al. A comparison of cryotherapy
and imiquimod for treatment of actinic keratoses: lesion clear-
ance, safety, and skin quality outcomes. J Drugs Dermatol 2011;
10:1432–8.
79 Pini AM, Koch S, Scharer L et al. Eruptive keratoacanthoma fol-
lowing topical imiquimod for in situ squamous cell carcinoma of
the skin in a renal transplant recipient. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008;
59(5 Suppl.):S116–7.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 39
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 21 ===
80 Serra-Guillen C, Nagore E, Hueso L et al. A randomized compara-
tive study of tolerance and satisfaction in the treatment of actinic
keratosis of the face and scalp between 5% imiquimod cream and
photodynamic therapy with methyl aminolaevulinate. Br J Dermatol
2011; 164:429–33.
81 Krawtchenko N, Roewert-Huber J, Ulrich M et al. A randomised
study of topical 5% imiquimod vs. topical 5-ﬂuorouracil vs. cryo-
surgery in immunocompetent patients with actinic keratoses: a
comparison of clinical and histological outcomes including 1-year
follow-up. Br J Dermatol 2007; 157(Suppl. 2):34–40.
82 Lee PK, Harwell WB, Loven KH et al. Long-term clinical outcomes
following treatment of actinic keratosis with imiquimod 5%
cream. Dermatol Surg 2005; 31:659–64.
83 Hanke CW, Beer KR, Stockﬂeth E et al. Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75%
for the treatment of actinic keratoses: results of two placebo-con-
trolled studies of daily application to the face and balding scalp for
two 3-week cycles. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010; 62:573–81.
84 Hanke CW, Swanson N, Bruce S et al. Complete clearance is sus-
tained for at least 12 months after treatment of actinic keratoses
of the face or balding scalp via daily dosing with imiquimod
3.75% or 2.5% cream. J Drugs Dermatol 2011; 10:165–70.
85 Swanson N, Abramovits W, Berman B et al. Imiquimod 2.5% and
3.75% for the treatment of actinic keratoses: results of two pla-
cebo-controlled studies of daily application to the face and bald-
ing scalp for two 2-week cycles. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010;
62:582–90.
86 Jorizzo JL, Markowitz O, Lebwohl MG et al. A randomized, dou-
ble-blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter, efﬁcacy and safety
study of 3.75% imiquimod cream following cryosurgery for the
treatment of actinic keratoses. J Drugs Dermatol 2010; 9:1101–8.
87 Goldenberg G, Linkner RV, Singer G et al. An investigator-
initiated study to assess the safety and efﬁcacy of imiquimod
3.75% cream when used after cryotherapy in the treatment of
hypertrophic actinic keratoses on dorsal hands and forearms. J
Clin Aesthet Dermatol 2013; 6:36–43.
88 Smith SR, Morhenn VB, Piacquadio DJ. Bilateral comparison of
the efﬁcacy and tolerability of 3% diclofenac sodium gel and 5%
5-ﬂuorouracil cream in the treatment of actinic keratoses of the
face and scalp. J Drugs Dermatol 2006; 5:156–9.
89 Segatto MM, Dornelles SI, Silveira VB et al. Comparative study of
actinic keratosis treatment with 3% diclofenac sodium and 5% 5-
ﬂuorouracil. An Bras Dermatol 2013; 88:732–8.
90 Wolf JE, Taylor JR, Tschen E et al. Topical 3.0% diclofenac in
2.5% hyaluronan gel in the treatment of actinic keratoses. Int J
Dermatol 2001; 40:709–13.
91 Pﬂugfelder A, Welter AK, Leiter U et al. Open label randomized
study comparing 3 months vs. 6 months treatment of actinic ker-
atoses with 3% diclofenac in 2.5% hyaluronic acid gel: a trial of
the German Dermatologic Cooperative Oncology Group. J Eur Acad
Dermatol Venereol 2012; 26:48–53.
92 Anderson L, Schmieder GJ, Werschler WP et al. Randomized,
double-blind, double-dummy, vehicle-controlled study of ingenol
mebutate gel 0.025% and 0.05% for actinic keratosis. J Am Acad
Dermatol 2009; 60:934–43.
93 Lebwohl M, Swanson N, Anderson LL et al. Ingenol mebutate gel
for actinic keratosis. N Engl J Med 2012; 366:1010–9.
94 Lebwohl M, Shumack S, Stein Gold L et al. Long-term follow-up
study of ingenol mebutate gel for the treatment of actinic ker-
atoses. JAMA Dermatol 2013; 149:666–70.
95 Garbe C, Basset-Seguin N, Poulin Y et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of
follow-up ﬁeld treatment of actinic keratosis with ingenol mebu-
tate 0.015% gel: a randomized, controlled 12-month study. Br J
Dermatol 2016; 174:505–13.
96 Anderson L, Melgaard A, Schmeider G et al. Two-day topical
treatment with ingenol mebutate gel, 0.05% for actinic keratoses
on the trunk and extremities: analysis of data pooled from two
trials. J Am Acad Dermatol 2012; 66:AB159.
97 US Food and Drug Administration. Picato (ingenol mebutate)
gel: drug safety communication – FDA warns of severe adverse
events, requires label changes. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/
Safety/MedWatch/SafetyInformation/SafetyAlertsforHumanMedi-
calProducts/ucm459311.htm (last accessed 16 September 2016).
98 Ku J. Clinical review. NDA 202833. PICATO
TM (ingenol mebutate
gel,
PEP005
gel).
Available
at:
http://www.accessdata.fda.-
gov/drugsatfda_docs/nda/2012/202833Orig1s000MedR.pdf
(last accessed 16 September 2016).
99 Erlendsson AM, Karmisholt KE, Haak CS et al. Topical corticos-
teroid has no inﬂuence on inﬂammation or efﬁcacy after ingenol
mebutate treatment of grade I to III actinic keratoses (AK): a ran-
domized clinical trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 2016; 74:709–15.
100 Ianhez M, Fleury LF Jr, Miot HA et al. Retinoids for prevention and
treatment of actinic keratosis. An Bras Dermatol 2013; 88:585–93.
101 Kang S, Goldfarb MT, Weiss JS et al. Assessment of adapalene gel
for the treatment of actinic keratoses and lentigines: a random-
ized trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003; 49:83–90.
102 Weinstock MA, Bingham SF, Lew RA et al. Topical tretinoin ther-
apy and all-cause mortality. Arch Dermatol 2009; 145:18–24.
103 Thai KE, Fergin P, Freeman M et al. A prospective study of the
use of cryosurgery for the treatment of actinic keratoses. Int J Der-
matol 2004; 43:687–92.
104 Szeimies RM, Karrer S, Radakovic-Fijan S et al. Photodynamic
therapy using topical methyl 5-aminolevulinate compared with
cryotherapy for actinic keratosis: a prospective, randomized
study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2002; 47:258–62.
105 Freeman M, Vinciullo C, Francis D et al. A comparison of photody-
namic therapy using topical methyl aminolevulinate (Metvix) with
single cycle cryotherapy in patients with actinic keratosis: a
prospective, randomized study. J Dermatolog Treat 2003; 14:99–106.
106 Kaufmann R, Spelman L, Weightman W et al. Multicentre intrain-
dividual randomized trial of topical methyl aminolaevulinate-
photodynamic therapy vs. cryotherapy for multiple actinic ker-
atoses on the extremities. Br J Dermatol 2008; 158:994–9.
107 Morton C, Campbell S, Gupta G et al. Intraindividual, right–left
comparison of topical methyl aminolaevulinate-photodynamic
therapy and cryotherapy in subjects with actinic keratoses: a mul-
ticentre,
randomized
controlled
study.
Br
J
Dermatol
2006;
155:1029–36.
108 Chiarello SE. Cryopeeling (extensive cryosurgery) for treatment
of actinic keratoses: an update and comparison. Dermatol Surg
2000; 26:728–32.
109 Abadir DM. Combination of topical 5-ﬂuorouracil with cryother-
apy for treatment of actinic keratoses. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1983;
9:403–4.
110 Jorizzo J, Weiss J, Furst K et al. Effect of a 1-week treatment with
0.5% topical ﬂuorouracil on occurrence of actinic keratosis after
cryosurgery: a randomized, vehicle-controlled clinical trial. Arch
Dermatol 2004; 140:813–6.
111 Motley R, Kersey P, Lawrence C et al. Multiprofessional guidelines
for the management of the patient with primary cutaneous squa-
mous cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol 2002; 146:18–25.
112 Moriarty M, Dunn J, Darragh A et al. Etretinate in treatment of acti-
nic keratosis. A double-blind crossover study. Lancet 1982; 1:364–5.
113 Watson AB. Preventative effect of etretinate therapy on multiple
actinic keratoses. Cancer Detect Prev 1986; 9:161–5.
114 Smit JV, de Sevaux RG, Blokx WA et al. Acitretin treatment in
(pre)malignant skin disorders of renal transplant recipients:
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
40 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 22 ===
histologic and immunohistochemical effects. J Am Acad Dermatol
2004; 50:189–96.
115 EBPG Expert Group on Renal Transplantation. European best prac-
tice guidelines for renal transplantation. Section IV: long-term
management of the transplant recipient. IV.6.2. Cancer risk after
renal transplantation. Skin cancers: prevention and treatment.
Nephrol Dial Transplant 2002; 17:S31–6.
116 Kovach BT, Murphy G, Otley CC et al. Oral retinoids for chemo-
prevention of skin cancers in organ transplant recipients: results
of a survey. Transplant Proc 2006; 38:1366–8.
117 Elmets CA, Viner JL, Pentland AP et al. Chemoprevention of non-
melanoma skin cancer with celecoxib: a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010; 102:1835–44.
118 Liebman TN, Stein JA, Polsky D. Cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors for
chemoprevention of nonmelanoma skin cancer: is there a role
for these agents? J Am Acad Dermatol 2013; 68:173–6.
119 Dirschka T, Radny P, Dominicus R et al. Photodynamic therapy
with BF-200 ALA for the treatment of actinic keratosis: results of
a multicentre, randomized, observer-blind phase III study in
comparison with a registered methyl-5-aminolaevulinate cream
and placebo. Br J Dermatol 2012; 166:137–46.
120 Szeimies RM, Radny P, Sebastian M et al. Photodynamic therapy
with BF-200 ALA for the treatment of actinic keratosis: results of
a
prospective,
randomized,
double-blind,
placebo-controlled
phase III study. Br J Dermatol 2010; 163:386–94.
121 Morton CA, Szeimies RM, Sidoroff A et al. European guidelines
for topical photodynamic therapy part 1: treatment delivery and
current indications – actinic keratoses, Bowen’s disease, basal cell
carcinoma. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2013; 27:536–44.
122 Klein A, Karrer S, Horner C et al. Comparing cold-air analgesia,
systemically administered analgesia and scalp nerve blocks for
pain management during photodynamic therapy for actinic ker-
atosis of the scalp presenting as ﬁeld cancerization: a randomized
controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2015; 173:192–200.
123 Petersen B, Wiegell SR, Wulf HC. Light protection of the skin
after photodynamic therapy reduces inﬂammation: an unblinded
randomized controlled study. Br J Dermatol 2014; 171:175–8.
124 Tarstedt M, Rosdahl I, Berne B et al. A randomized multicenter
study to compare two treatment regimens of topical methyl
aminolevulinate (Metvix)-PDT in actinic keratosis of the face
and scalp. Acta Derm Venereol 2005; 85:424–8.
125 Piacquadio DJ, Chen DM, Farber HF et al. Photodynamic therapy
with aminolevulinic acid topical solution and visible blue light in
the treatment of multiple actinic keratoses of the face and scalp:
investigator-blinded, phase 3, multicenter trials. Arch Dermatol
2004; 140:41–6.
126 Taub AF, Garretson CB. A randomized, blinded, bilateral intrain-
dividual, vehicle-controlled trial of the use of photodynamic
therapy with 5-aminolevulinic acid and blue light for the treat-
ment of actinic keratoses of the upper extremities. J Drugs Dermatol
2011; 10:1049–56.
127 Tschen EH, Wong DS, Pariser DM et al. Photodynamic therapy
using aminolaevulinic acid for patients with nonhyperkeratotic
actinic keratoses of the face and scalp: phase IV multicentre
clinical trial with 12-month follow up. Br J Dermatol 2006;
155:1262–9.
128 Sotiriou E, Apalla Z, Chovarda E et al. Single vs. fractionated pho-
todynamic therapy for face and scalp actinic keratoses: a random-
ized, intraindividual comparison trial with 12-month follow-up. J
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2012; 26:36–40.
129 Togsverd-Bo K, Haak CS, Thaysen-Petersen D et al. Intensiﬁed
photodynamic therapy of actinic keratoses with fractional CO2
laser: a randomized clinical trial. Br J Dermatol 2012; 166:1262–9.
130 Scola N, Terras S, Georgas D et al. A randomized, half-side com-
parative study of aminolaevulinate photodynamic therapy vs. CO2
laser ablation in immunocompetent patients with multiple actinic
keratoses. Br J Dermatol 2012; 167:1366–73.
131 Patel G, Armstrong AW, Eisen DB. Efﬁcacy of photodynamic
therapy versus other interventions in randomized clinical trials
for the treatment of actinic keratoses: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. JAMA Dermatol 2014; 150:1281–8.
132 Serra-Guillen C, Nagore E, Hueso L et al. A randomized pilot
comparative study of topical methyl aminolevulinate photody-
namic therapy versus imiquimod 5% versus sequential applica-
tion of both therapies in immunocompetent patients with actinic
keratosis: clinical and histologic outcomes. J Am Acad Dermatol
2012; 66:e131–7.
133 Hadley J, Tristani-Firouzi P, Hull C et al. Results of an investiga-
tor-initiated single-blind split-face comparison of photodynamic
therapy and 5% imiquimod cream for the treatment of actinic
keratoses. Dermatol Surg 2012; 38:722–7.
134 Sotiriou E, Apalla Z, Maliamani F et al. Intraindividual, right-left
comparison of topical 5-aminolevulinic acid photodynamic ther-
apy vs. 5% imiquimod cream for actinic keratoses on the upper
extremities. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2009; 23:1061–5.
135 Hauschild A, Stockﬂeth E, Popp G et al. Optimization of photody-
namic therapy with a novel self-adhesive 5-aminolaevulinic acid
patch: results of two randomized controlled phase III studies. Br J
Dermatol 2009; 160:1066–74.
136 Szeimies RM, Stockﬂeth E, Popp G et al. Long-term follow-up of
photodynamic therapy with a self-adhesive 5-aminolaevulinic
acid patch: 12 months data. Br J Dermatol 2010; 162:410–4.
137 Wiegell SR, Haedersdal M, Philipsen PA et al. Continuous activa-
tion of PpIX by daylight is as effective as and less painful than
conventional photodynamic therapy for actinic keratoses; a ran-
domized, controlled, single-blinded study. Br J Dermatol 2008;
158:740–6.
138 Wiegell SR, Haedersdal M, Eriksen P et al. Photodynamic therapy
of actinic keratoses with 8% and 16% methyl aminolaevulinate
and home-based daylight exposure: a double-blinded randomized
clinical trial. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:1308–14.
139 Wiegell SR, Fabricius S, Stender IM et al. A randomized, multi-
centre study of directed daylight exposure times of 1½ vs. 2½ h
in daylight-mediated photodynamic therapy with methyl amino-
laevulinate in patients with multiple thin actinic keratoses of the
face and scalp. Br J Dermatol 2011; 164:1083–90.
140 Rubel DM, Spelman L, Murrell DF et al. Daylight photodynamic
therapy with methyl aminolevulinate cream as a convenient, sim-
ilarly effective, nearly painless alternative to conventional photo-
dynamic therapy in actinic keratosis treatment: a randomized
controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2014; 171:1164–71.
141 Lacour JP, Ulrich C, Gilaberte Y et al. Daylight photodynamic
therapy with methyl aminolevulinate cream is effective and
nearly painless in treating actinic keratoses: a randomised, inves-
tigator-blinded, controlled, phase III study throughout Europe. J
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015; 29:2342–8.
142 Morton CA, Wulf HC, Szeimies RM et al. Practical approach to
the use of daylight photodynamic therapy with topical methyl
aminolevulinate for actinic keratosis: a European consensus. J Eur
Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015; 29:1718–23.
143 See JA, Shumack S, Murrell DF et al. Consensus recommendations
on the use of daylight photodynamic therapy with methyl
aminolevulinate cream for actinic keratoses in Australia. Australas J
Dermatol 2016; 57:167–74.
144 Wiegell SR, Wulf HC, Szeimies RM et al. Daylight photodynamic
therapy
for
actinic
keratosis:
an
international
consensus:
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 41
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 23 ===
International Society for Photodynamic Therapy in Dermatology.
J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2012; 26:673–9.
145 Genovese G, Fai D, Fai C et al. Daylight methyl-aminolevulinate
photodynamic therapy versus ingenol mebutate for the treatment
of actinic keratoses: an intraindividual comparative analysis. Der-
matol Ther 2016; 29:191–6.
146 de Vries K, Prens EP. Laser treatment and its implications for
photodamaged skin and actinic keratosis. Curr Probl Dermatol 2015;
46:129–35.
147 Ostertag JU, Quaedvlieg PJ, van der Geer S et al. A clinical com-
parison and long-term follow-up of topical 5-ﬂuorouracil versus
laser resurfacing in the treatment of widespread actinic keratoses.
Lasers Surg Med 2006; 38:731–9.
148 Hantash BM, Stewart DB, Cooper ZA et al. Facial resurfacing for
nonmelanoma
skin
cancer
prophylaxis.
Arch
Dermatol
2006;
142:976–82.
149 Sherry SD, Miles BA, Finn RA. Long-term efﬁcacy of carbon diox-
ide laser resurfacing for facial actinic keratosis. J Oral Maxillofac Surg
2007; 65:1135–9.
150 Iyer S, Friedli A, Bowes L et al. Full face laser resurfacing: therapy
and prophylaxis for actinic keratoses and non-melanoma skin
cancer. Lasers Surg Med 2004; 34:114–9.
151 Ostertag JU, Quaedvlieg PJF, Neumann MHAM, Krekels GA.
Recurrence rates and long-term follow-up after laser resurfacing
as a treatment for widespread actinic keratoses in the face and on
the scalp. Dermatol Surg 2006; 32:261–7.
152 Gan SD, Hsu SH, Chuang G et al. Ablative fractional laser therapy
for the treatment of actinic keratosis: a split-face study. J Am Acad
Dermatol 2016; 74:387–9.
153 Prens SP, de Vries K, Neumann HA et al. Non-ablative fractional
resurfacing in combination with topical tretinoin cream as a ﬁeld
treatment modality for multiple actinic keratosis: a pilot study
and a review of other ﬁeld treatment modalities. J Dermatolog Treat
2013; 24:227–31.
154 Coleman WP, Yarborough JM, Mandy SH. Dermabrasion for pro-
phylaxis and treatment of actinic keratoses. Dermatol Surg 1996;
22:17–21.
155 Winton GB, Salasche SJ. Dermabrasion of the scalp as a treatment
for actinic damage. J Am Acad Dermatol 1986; 14:661–8.
156 Mastrolonardo M. Topical diclofenac 3% gel plus cryotherapy for
treatment of multiple and recurrent actinic keratoses. Clin Exp Der-
matol 2009; 34:33–5.
157 Berlin JM, Rigel DS. Diclofenac sodium 3% gel in the treatment of
actinic keratoses postcryosurgery. J Drugs Dermatol 2008; 7:669–73.
158 Van der Geer S, Krekels GA. Treatment of actinic keratoses on the
dorsum of the hands: ALA-PDT versus diclofenac 3% gel fol-
lowed by ALA-PDT. A placebo-controlled, double-blind, pilot
study. J Dermatolog Treat 2009; 20:259–65.
159 Gilbert DJ. Treatment of actinic keratoses with sequential combi-
nation of 5-ﬂuorouracil and photodynamic therapy. J Drugs Derma-
tol 2005; 4:161–3.
160 Shaffelburg M. Treatment of actinic keratoses with sequential use
of photodynamic therapy; and imiquimod 5% cream. J Drugs Der-
matol 2009; 8:35–9.
161 Hoover WD 3rd, Jorizzo JL, Clark AR et al. Efﬁcacy of cryosurgery
and 5-ﬂuorouracil cream 0.5% combination therapy for the treat-
ment of actinic keratosis. Cutis 2014; 94:255–9.
162 Tuppurainen K. Cryotherapy for eyelid and periocular basal cell
carcinomas: outcome in 166 cases over an 8-year period. Graefes
Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 1995; 233:205–8.
163 Couch SM, Custer PL. Topical 5-ﬂuorouracil for the treatment of
periocular actinic keratosis and low-grade squamous malignancy.
Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg 2012; 28:181–3.
164 Cannon PS, O’Donnell B, Huilgol SC et al. The ophthalmic side-
effects of imiquimod therapy in the management of periocular
skin lesions. Br J Ophthalmol 2011; 95:1682–5.
165 Tallon B, Turnbull N. 5% Fluorouracil chemowraps in the man-
agement of widespread lower leg solar keratoses and squamous
cell carcinoma. Australas J Dermatol 2013; 54:313–6.
166 Wallingford SC, Russell SA, Vail A et al. Actinic keratoses, actinic
ﬁeld change and associations with squamous cell carcinoma in
renal transplant recipients in Manchester, U.K. Acta Derm Venereol
2015; 95:830–4.
167 Ingham AI, Weightman W. The efﬁcacy and safety of topical 5%
5-ﬂuorouracil in renal transplant recipients for the treatment of
actinic keratoses. Australas J Dermatol 2014; 55:204–8.
168 Annemans L, Caekelbergh K, Roelandts R et al. Real-life practice
study of the clinical outcome and cost-effectiveness of photody-
namic therapy using methyl aminolevulinate (MAL-PDT) in the
management of actinic keratosis and basal cell carcinoma. Eur J
Dermatol 2008; 18:539–46.
169 Caekelbergh K, Annemans L, Lambert J et al. Economic evaluation
of methyl aminolaevulinate-based photodynamic therapy in the
management of actinic keratosis and basal cell carcinoma. Br J
Dermatol 2006; 155:784–90.
170 Colombo GL, Chimenti S, Di Matteo S et al. Cost-effectiveness
analysis of topical treatments for actinic keratosis in the perspec-
tive of the Italian health care system. G Ital Dermatol Venereol 2010;
145:573–81.
171 Gold MH. Pharmacoeconomic analysis of the treatment of multi-
ple actinic keratoses. J Drugs Dermatol 2008; 7:23–5.
172 Wilson EC. Cost effectiveness of imiquimod 5% cream compared
with methyl aminolevulinate-based photodynamic therapy in the
treatment of non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic (solar)
keratoses: a decision tree model. Pharmacoeconomics 2010; 28:1055–
64.
173 Muston D, Downs A, Rives V. An economic evaluation of topical
treatments for actinic keratosis. J Dermatolog Treat 2009; 20:266–
75.
174 Gibbs S, Davis T. Usage and patient experience of 5% ﬂuorouracil
cream. Clin Exp Dermatol 2015; 40:88.
175 Perera E, McGuigan S, Sinclair R. Cost for the treatment of actinic
keratosis on the rise in Australia. F1000Res 2014; 3:184.
176 Pariser DM, Lowe NJ, Stewart DM et al. Photodynamic therapy
with topical methyl aminolevulinate for actinic keratosis: results
of a prospective randomized multicenter trial. J Am Acad Dermatol
2003; 48:227–32.
177 Colechin E, Sims A, Reay C et al. Ambulight photodynamic ther-
apy. Available at: http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/mtg6/docu-
ments/ambulight-photodynamic-therapy-for-the-treatment-of-
nonmelanoma-skin-cancer-external-assessment-centre-report2
(last accessed 16 September 2016).
178 Gov.uk. National tariff payment system 2014/15. Available at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-tariff-pay-
ment-system-2014-to-2015. (last accessed 16 September 2016).
179 Personal Social Services Research Unit. Unit costs of health and
social care 2015. Available at: http://www.pssru.ac.uk/project-
pages/unit-costs/2015 (last accessed 16 September 2016).
Supporting information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix S1. Search strategy.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
42 Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 24 ===
Appendix 1
Levels of evidence
Appendix 2
Strengths of recommendation
Class
Evidence
A
At least one meta-analysis, systematic review or RCT rated as 1++, and directly applicable to the target population, or
A systematic review of RCTs or a body of evidence consisting principally of studies rated as 1+, directly applicable to the target
population and demonstrating overall consistency of results, or
Evidence drawn from a NICE technology appraisal
B
A body of evidence including studies rated as 2++, directly applicable to the target population and demonstrating overall consistency
of results, or
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 1++ or 1+
C
A body of evidence including studies rated as 2+, directly applicable to the target population and demonstrating overall consistency
of results, or
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2++
D
Evidence level 3 or 4, or
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2+, or
Formal consensus
D (GPP)
A good practice point (GPP) is a recommendation for best practice based on the experience of the Guideline Development Group
RCT, randomized controlled trial; NICE, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence.
Level of evidence
Type of evidence
1++
High-quality meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a very low risk of bias
1+
Well-conducted meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a low risk of bias
1
Meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a high risk of biasa
2++
High-quality systematic reviews of case–control or cohort studies. High-quality case–control or cohort studies with a
very low risk of confounding, bias or chance and a high probability that the relationship is causal
2+
Well-conducted case–control or cohort studies with a low risk of confounding, bias or chance, and a moderate probability
that the relationship is causal
2
Case–control or cohort studies with a high risk of confounding, bias or chance and a signiﬁcant risk that the relationship
is not causala
3
Nonanalytical studies (for example case reports, case series)
4
Expert opinion, formal consensus
RCT, randomized controlled trial. aStudies with a level of evidence ‘’ should not be used as a basis for making a recommendation.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp20–43
Guidelines for actinic keratosis 2017, D. de Berker et al. 43
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/1/20/6747903 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 25 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
