=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists’ guidelines for the
safe and effective prescribing of azathioprine 2011
S.J. Meggitt, A.V. Anstey,* M.F. Mohd Mustapa, N.J. Reynolds and S. Wakelin§
Department of Dermatology, Royal Victoria Inﬁrmary, Queen Victoria Road, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4LP, U.K.
*Department of Dermatology, Royal Gwent Hospital, Cardiff Road, Newport, Gwent NP20 2UB, U.K.
British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London W1T 5HQ, U.K.
Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, U.K.
§Department of Dermatology, St Mary’s Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare Trust, Praed Street, London W2 1NY, U.K.
Correspondence
Simon Meggitt.
E-mail: s.j.meggitt@ncl.ac.uk
Accepted for publication
21 July 2011
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
N.J.R. receives research grant support from Stiefel, a GSK Company,
through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership Award and Astra Zeneca
through a BBSRC CASE award, and sat on advisory boards (nonpersonal)
for Abbott, Janssen-Cilag, Schering-Plough and Creabilis Therapeutics.
A.V.A, M.F.M.M., N.J.R. and S.W. contributed equally to this project.
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of
Dermatologists’ (BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, made up of the Therapy
& Guidelines (T&G) Subcommittee and the Audit & Clinical Standards
Subcommittee (A&CS). Members of the Clinical Standards Unit are: M.J.
Tidman (Chairman T&G), L.C. Fuller (Chairman A&CS), J. McLelland,
J. Lear, J. Hughes, A.J. McDonagh, S. Punjabi, N. Morar, D.A. Buckley,
I. Nasr, P. Maycock (British National Formulary), S. Amin (British
National Formulary), S.E. Hulley (British Dermatological Nursing
Group), S.E. Haveron (BAD Scientiﬁc Administrator), M.F. Mohd
Mustapa (BAD Clinical Standards Manager).
Guidelines produced in 2004 by the British Association of
Dermatologists; reviewed and updated 2011.
DOI 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2011.10575.x
1.0 Introduction
Azathioprine is a thiopurine immunosuppressant drug that
occupies an important place in the management of many
autoimmune and inﬂammatory skin diseases. Its parent drug
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), and the closely related 6-thiogua-
nine (6-TG), were originally developed for their anticancer
properties, but thiopurines as a class are now more widely
used for their anti-inﬂammatory and immunosuppressant
effects. 6-MP and 6-TG have never found their way into rou-
tine dermatological practice and these guidelines relate to aza-
thioprine and its extensive on- and off-label applications for
inﬂammatory dermatoses.
Although azathioprine has been widely prescribed since the
1960s, there continue to be developments in understanding of
drug action, pharmacogenetics and toxicology. These offer the
potential for improved and individualized azathioprine pre-
scribing, but have also created areas of controversy and
resulted in contradictory information for clinicians. Neverthe-
less, a basic understanding of the issues relating to azathio-
prine metabolism and mode of action is important for the
dermatologist, and should allow better explanation of treat-
ment to patients with optimized prescribing and monitoring
of therapy.
2.0 Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the safe and effective use
of azathioprine. The document aims to update and expand on
the previous guidelines by (i) offering a complete reappraisal
of all relevant literature since 1966 and focusing on key devel-
opments over the past 5 years, in particular the applicability
of thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) assessment to the clin-
ical setting; (ii) addressing important, practical clinical ques-
tions
relating
to
the
primary
guideline
objective;
(iii)
providing guideline recommendations with an evaluation of
their health economic impact; and (iv) discussing potential
developments and future directions. The guideline is presented
as a detailed review with highlighted recommendations for
practical use in the clinic, in addition to updated patient infor-
mation.
NHS Evidence has accredited the process used by the British Association of
Dermatologists to produce guidelines. Accreditation is valid for 3 years from
May 2010 and is applicable to guidance produced using the processes
described in the British Association of Dermatologists’ guidelines development
manual (Bell & Ormerod, 2009). More information on accreditation can be
viewed at http://www.evidence.nhs.uk.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
711
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
3.0 Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The guideline working group consisted of dermatologists and
a patient representative. The draft document was circulated to
the British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) membership,
the British Dermatological Nursing Group (BDNG), an immu-
nologist and a hepatologist for comments and peer reviewed
by the Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD (made up of the
Therapy & Guidelines and Audit & Clinical Standards Subcom-
mittees) prior to publication.
4.0 Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology1 and with reference to the Appraisal
of Guidelines Research and Evaluation (AGREE) instrument.2
Recommendations were developed for implementation in the
NHS using a process of considered judgment based on the evi-
dence.
PubMed,
MEDLINE
and
EMBASE
databases
were
searched up to January 2011 for randomized and nonrandom-
ized controlled clinical trials, case series, case reports, open
studies and research articles involving azathioprine and 6-MP.
Due to the expected high number of results in the EMBASE
search, which has a particular emphasis on drug literature,
additional search protocols were used speciﬁcally to target key
areas such as thiopurine-metabolizing enzymes and toxicity,
as well as separating the results into predominantly derma-
tology- and gastroenterology-based publications. Search terms
and strategies are detailed in Appendix S1 (see Supporting in-
formation). Searches were also carried out in the Cochrane,
National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE),
Database of Uncertainties about the Effects of Treatments
(DUET) and Royal College of Physicians (RCP) databases.
Additional relevant references were also isolated from citations
in reviewed literature, as well as independent targeted searches
carried out by each co-author. All titles in the English lan-
guage were screened, and those relevant for ﬁrst-round inclu-
sion were selected for further scrutiny; the abstracts were then
reviewed by all members of the working group and the full
papers of relevant material were obtained following selection
by common agreement. Speciﬁc selection criteria were not
deemed necessary as the number of selected abstracts was rela-
tively small (< 150) and there was consensus that the full
papers were needed in most cases. The structure of the guide-
lines was then discussed and different co-authors were allocated
separate subsections. Each co-author then performed a detailed
appraisal of the relevant literature, and all subsections were
subsequently collated and edited to produce the ﬁnal guideline.
5.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines, and that the results
of future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence.
6.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
set for 2016; where necessary, important interim changes will
be updated on the BAD website.
7.0 Azathioprine metabolism and
pharmacogenetics
This section aims to give an overview of the basis for the bio-
logical effects of azathioprine and introduce some concepts
related to dosing and toxicity which will be detailed later in the
guideline. A widely experienced and important problem for the
clinician using azathioprine is the large variability demonstrated
by patients both in response to the drug and side-effects. In
some patients this can be explained by increasingly well-charac-
terized genetic differences in drug-metabolizing enzymes, but
the role of other potential factors such as variability in drug
absorption and bioavailability remains a matter for speculation.
Azathioprine is a prodrug that is rapidly converted to 6-MP
(Fig. 1), which is then metabolized by the purine salvage
pathway. This is the usual cellular mechanism by which
endogenous purines are interconverted and recycled. 6-MP is
acted on by several competing pathways, and bioactivation
occurs via a series of enzymes to form thioguanine nucleotides
(TGNs). The major catabolic pathway is mediated by xanthine
oxidase and produces thiouric acid. A third pathway of meth-
ylation by the enzyme TPMT produces several intermediates,
most of which are therapeutically inactive. A common poly-
morphism in the TPMT gene, such that approximately 10% of
individuals carry a low-activity variant allele, has been shown
to be an important factor governing thiopurine toxicity. An
increase in TPMT activity diverts metabolites from the activat-
ing pathway and fewer TGNs are formed. This effectively
amounts to a reduction in azathioprine dose with a theoretical
decrease in pharmacological (and toxic) effects. The converse
situation occurs with decreased TPMT activity, such that in the
extreme situation, those individuals (0Æ3%)3,4 who inherit two
low-activity variant TPMT alleles are highly likely to develop
intense TGN-induced myelosuppression if given azathioprine
at conventional doses. They are effectively receiving a massive
thiopurine overdose and the profound and prolonged pancyto-
penia may be fatal.5,6 A lesser degree of myelotoxicity, most
commonly neutropenia, can also be seen in carriers of one
variant TPMT
allele who receive
conventional
thiopurine
doses.7,8 These ﬁndings and their relevance to both toxicity
and efﬁcacy have been elucidated in a series of seminal papers
over the past 30 years,3,9,10 and there are a number of excel-
lent reviews of this topic.11
Other than TPMT, different enzymes and intermediates that
may also be clinically relevant are gradually being described
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
712 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
and added to the multifaceted overall picture. Much of this lit-
erature is beyond the scope of the current guideline. How-
ever, those factors which either offer additional insight into
efﬁcacy and toxicity, or may affect future clinical practice will
be reviewed, and are also shown in Figure 1.
8.0 Effective use of azathioprine: review of the
evidence
8.1 Indications
Licensed and unlicensed indications are listed in Table 1 (see
Appendix 1 for Strength of recommendations and levels of
evidence).
8.11 Licensed indications
Autoimmune bullous disorders
Although licensed for pemphigus vulgaris, the evidence for this
indication is less than robust.16 A recent systematic review of 11
studies of interventions for pemphigus vulgaris and pemphigus
foliaceus concluded that although the quality of included studies
was not high, there was evidence to support a steroid-sparing
effect of azathioprine17 which appeared greater than that of both
cyclophosphamide or mycophenolate mofetil.16 However, look-
ing at induction of remission, there is insufﬁcient evidence to in-
dicate that azathioprine (or any other second-line agent
including cyclophosphamide and mycophenolate) is more effec-
tive than glucocorticoids alone.16 Two nonblinded, randomized
controlled trials (RCTs) reported that mycophenolate appeared
HN
N
N
H
N
S
N
N
O2N
CH3
HN
N
N
H
N
S
HN
N
N
N
S
O
OH
OH
P
HN
N
N
N
S
O
HO
P
HN
N
N
N
S
O
H2N
P
HN
N
N
N
S
O
P
CH3
HN
N
N
H
N
S
CH3
HN
N
N
N
S
O
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
HO
CH3
S
N
N
NO2
H3C
N
N
N
H
N
SH
OH
HO
+
Fig 1. Thiopurine metabolism. The conversion of azathioprine to 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) with subsequent metabolism by the endogenous
purine salvage pathway is shown. The major active metabolites are thioguanine nucleotides (TGNs) and the major catabolic endpoints are thiouric
acid and methylmercaptopurine (MeMP). This diagram is a signiﬁcant simpliﬁcation and only shows the key intermediates and enzymes that are
of relevance to these guidelines. (A) Azathioprine reacts with glutathione and is cleaved to the glutathionyl derivative of 1-methyl-4-
nitroimidazole and 6-MP. It is possible that the imidazole moiety may have a therapeutic effect,12 but this has not been investigated in vivo.
(B) The activation pathway is shown as a series of enzymatically mediated steps [hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT),
inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPD)] from left to right in the diagram, and results in the formation of TGNs. These may exert their
biological effects in several ways,13,14 with incorporation of the false base into DNA being the most widely cited mechanism. (C) Thiopurine
methyltransferase (TPMT) is a key enzyme in the pathway, as genetic variations in enzyme activity can explain differences in TGN proﬁles
between individuals. Methylation by TPMT diverts metabolism away from TGN production, such that individuals homozygous for TPMT variant
alleles will have absent TPMT activity and consequently develop very high TGN levels, which are myelotoxic. (D) Other enzymes [inosine
triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPase)] and thiopurine intermediates [methylthioinosine monophosphate (MeTIMP)] may also affect toxicity and
efﬁcacy. For example, MeTIMP is an inhibitor of de novo purine synthesis in vitro.15 However, the relevance of these factors in the clinical setting is
much less certain than the TPMT ⁄TGN paradigm (see section 13.0). XO, xanthine oxidase; MeMPR, methylmercaptopurine riboside; TIMP,
thioinosine monophosphate; TITP, thioinosine triphosphate; TXMP, thioxanthine monophosphate; TGMP, thioguanine monophosphate; TGDP,
thioguanine diphosphate; TGTP, thioguanine triphosphate; GSH, glutathione; GS-imidazole, glutathionyl derivative of 1-methyl-4-nitroimidazole.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 713
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
equally efﬁcacious as azathioprine in inducing remission in
pemphigus.17,18 However, an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis
of one of these studies18 suggested that mycophenolate may be
more effective in achieving disease control than azathioprine.16
Lupus erythematosus
Azathioprine is licensed for use in systemic lupus erythemato-
sus, and there is evidence to indicate superiority for mainte-
nance compared with cyclophosphamide, following induction
in patients with lupus nephritis.19 In cutaneous lupus, there
are no RCTs to indicate efﬁcacy although several case series
suggest that azathioprine may be a useful treatment.20–22
Dermatomyositis and polymyositis
Azathioprine appears effective as a second-line agent in
patients with dermatomyositis (DM) or polymyositis (PM),
with several case series showing improvement in 57–75% of
patients.23 Two RCTs have compared azathioprine with meth-
otrexate (MTX), although the quality of this evidence was
considered to be poor in a systematic review.24 Efﬁcacy
appeared similar in a RCT (n = 28, published as an abstract
only) although MTX showed a better side-effect proﬁle.25 In a
6-month crossover RCT (n = 30), a combination of weekly
oral MTX plus daily azathioprine was compared with intrave-
nous MTX alone (every 2 weeks) in resistant DM or PM.26
Using ITT analysis, a greater number of patients improved
with the MTX ⁄azathioprine combination compared with intra-
venous MTX (P = 0Æ025), although the study lacked the
power to compare both treatments directly. In juvenile DM,
azathioprine has been demonstrated to have a steroid-sparing
effect27 and may also be beneﬁcial in patients who have failed
other immunosuppressive therapies.28
8.12 Unlicensed indications
Autoimmune bullous disorders
Azathioprine is widely used as a steroid-sparing agent in auto-
immune bullous disorders including bullous pemphigoid. For
example, a recent survey in 42 German hospitals showed that
azathioprine is used as a ﬁrst-line therapy adjunctive to oral
corticosteroids for pemphigoid in 69% of hospitals.29 A sys-
tematic review of therapeutic modalities for pemphigoid con-
cluded
that
the
combined
effectiveness
of
azathioprine
adjunctive to corticosteroids had not been established although
there was evidence to support a steroid-sparing effect (by up
to 50%).30 Since then, a multicentre, randomized, nonblinded
trial showed mycophenolate mofetil and azathioprine to have
similar efﬁcacy in combination with corticosteroids in induc-
ing remission of bullous pemphigoid.31 Liver toxicity was
seen at a higher frequency in the azathioprine group whereas
infections appeared more common in patients treated with
mycophenolate mofetil.31,32 Thus, while the evidence base to
support the use of azathioprine as an adjunctive treatment for
bullous pemphigoid is lacking, this is also true for other sec-
ond-line agents that may be considered. For the group of
patients who have incomplete control with oral prednisolone
and require alternative therapeutic regimes, adjunctive azathio-
prine will continue to be used in clinical practice until further
evidence is forthcoming, particularly as dermatologists are
usually familiar with azathioprine and its side-effect proﬁle.
Inﬂammatory skin diseases
Eczema
Although azathioprine is not licensed for use in atopic eczema,
there is now strong evidence (from two RCTs) for a statistic-
ally signiﬁcant and clinically meaningful response to azathio-
prine. Both studies used the drug as oral monotherapy in
moderate-to-severe, refractory disease.33,34 One study showed
that
overall,
at
12 weeks,
azathioprine
induced
a
37%
improvement
in
disease
activity
compared
with
a
20%
improvement with placebo.34 This was accompanied by paral-
lel improvement in quality of life and patient symptoms. A
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial has also shown azathio-
prine to be of beneﬁt in chronic actinic dermatitis.35
Psoriasis
There is limited evidence to suggest that azathioprine may be
effective as a monotherapy in the treatment of moderate-to-
severe psoriasis36 but it is now rarely used in clinical practice.
However, a recent retrospective review suggests azathioprine
may be combined with biologics such as inﬂiximab as an
alternative to MTX for long-term maintenance.37
Vasculitis
Azathioprine shows therapeutic efﬁcacy in a variety of vascu-
litides and Behc¸et disease.38 In Wegener’s granulomatosis, a
RCT has shown that azathioprine is as effective as cyclophos-
phamide in maintaining remission following induction by
cyclophosphamide plus prednisolone.39 Similarly, a prospec-
tive, open-label trial showed azathioprine to be as effective as
Table 1 Licensed and unlicensed indications for azathioprine in the
treatment of dermatological disorders
Licensed indications
Unlicensed indications
Systemic lupus erythematosus
Atopic dermatitis
Dermatomyositis
Psoriasisa
Pemphigus vulgarisb
Bullous pemphigoid
Chronic actinic dermatitis
Pyoderma gangrenosum
Pityriasis rubra pilaris
Wegener’s granulomatosis
Cutaneous vasculitis
aStrength of recommendation D; level of evidence 3; bStrength of recommendation
B; level of evidence 1 (see Appendix 1).
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
714 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
MTX for maintenance therapy.40 There is also limited evidence
for azathioprine use in rheumatoid vasculitis.41
In severe cutaneous leucocytoclastic vasculitis unresponsive
to ﬁrst-line therapy including dapsone, treatment with system-
ic
corticosteroids
combined
with
azathioprine
may
be
considered, although evidence for this is limited to case
series.20 There is insufﬁcient evidence to support the use of
azathioprine in the management of Henoch–Scho¨nlein purpura
nephritis.42 No studies have addressed whether azathioprine
affects the development of kidney disease in Henoch–Scho¨n-
lein purpura, but this is also the case for other immunosup-
pressive agents and corticosteroids.43
Other indications
There is a lack of formal studies but there is limited evidence
that azathioprine may be effective in other inﬂammatory skin
conditions such as pyoderma gangrenosum44 and pityriasis ru-
bra pilaris.45
Recommendations: unlicensed indications for
azathioprine
There is evidence to support the use of azathioprine outside its
product licence for the following indications:
• Atopic eczema (Strength of recommendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• Maintenance therapy for Wegener’s granulomatosis (Strength of
recommendation B; level of evidence 1+)
• Behc¸et disease (Strength of recommendation B; level of evidence 1+)
• Bullous pemphigoid (Strength of recommendation B; level of evidence
1))
8.2 The role of thiopurine methyltransferase
measurement in azathioprine prescribing
This section investigates the evidence for a link between TPMT
and both azathioprine effectiveness and toxicity. Although
these are theoretically affected by variations in TPMT activity,
the results of studies are sometimes conﬂicting, and conse-
quently the clinical importance of TPMT in certain situations
remains uncertain.
8.21 Thiopurine methyltransferase and azathioprine
toxicity
A growing number of studies clearly support the association
between absent TPMT activity and acute severe neutropenia in
patients
receiving
conventional
doses
of
azathioprine
or
6-MP.5,6,9 A meta-analysis of 67 studies, the majority retro-
spective cohort in design, showed that 86% of patients with
two
variant
TPMT
alleles
developed
myelosuppression.46
Recently, a controlled trial in 333 patients attempted to clarify
the value of pretreatment TPMT genotyping in predicting hae-
matological adverse events due to azathioprine.4 The recruit-
ment target (n = 500) was not met, but in agreement with
other reports, the one patient who developed profound neu-
tropenia (nongenotyped arm) was subsequently shown to
have a homozygous TPMT null mutation. Prevention of poten-
tially life-threatening myelosuppression by assessing pretreat-
ment TPMT status offers the most compelling argument for
the use of TPMT testing in the clinic. For a discussion of the
evidence for the cost-effectiveness of this test, see section
12.4.
Importantly,
many
studies
have
also
highlighted
that
patients with one variant TPMT allele (intermediate-range
TPMT
activity)
who
receive
‘conventional’
doses
of
thiopurines may be at greater risk of toxicity from ther-
apy.7,8,47–49 Unfortunately, there are only limited publications
pertaining to patients with dermatological conditions, includ-
ing one retrospective review of 139 patients with pemphigus
vulgaris which failed to demonstrate an association.50 There-
fore, for the purposes of these guidelines, relevant literature
for nondermatological indications is also reviewed.
Whether patients heterozygous at the TPMT locus have an
increased risk of adverse events in general remains unclear
from the literature. A few studies have suggested that nausea
is associated with TPMT status,51,52 but others have not,53–55
and all of these studies were relatively small. One larger, pro-
spective study of azathioprine for inﬂammatory bowel disease
(IBD) indicated that 17% of 33 patients with intermediate-
range TPMT activity reported nausea ⁄vomiting, compared with
8% of 366 patients with normal TPMT status.47 However, the
authors of the study did not discuss this ﬁnding or report the
statistical signiﬁcance of the association.
The evidence for haematological adverse events in patients
with TPMT mutations is much stronger. In a recent meta-analy-
sis of 67 studies, the odds ratio (OR) for developing azathio-
prine-induced leucopenia for those with intermediate-range
TPMT compared with normal activity has been calculated to be
4Æ2 [95% conﬁdence interval (CI) 3Æ2–5Æ5].46 This is similar to
the result of the largest single study to assess TPMT activity and
haematological toxicity, which examined 394 consecutive
patients with IBD treated with azathioprine 2Æ0–2Æ5 mg kg)1.
The probability of myelotoxicity in the normal TPMT activity
group was shown to be 3Æ5% compared with 14Æ3% in the
intermediate TPMT activity group (95% CI 1Æ37–14Æ9, OR
4Æ5).47 This is an important study, as the sample size was large,
the design was prospective, and the result was statistically
signiﬁcant. The authors subsequently suggested the need for a
50% dose reduction in those with intermediate TPMT activity.
However, a prospective study by the same authors (Gisbert
et al.56) in 131 patients with IBD whose azathioprine dosage
was determined by TPMT status reported that three of the four
patients who suffered from myelotoxicity had normal baseline
TPMT activity, with the fourth having intermediate levels. It
can be concluded from this result that dose reduction for inter-
mediate-range TPMT activity does not necessarily prevent the
occurrence of neutropenia, as myelotoxicity can occur in the
presence of normal TPMT activity. This is borne out by several
other reports which suggest that the occurrence of bone mar-
row toxicity is often independent of TPMT status. One study
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 715
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
indicated that TPMT mutations were absent in 73% of patients
with Crohn disease who had experienced severe myelosuppres-
sion with azathioprine,57 indicating that pretreatment TPMT
measurement should not be seen as a substitute for standard
haematological monitoring.58
The issue of whether to reduce the dose in individuals with
intermediate-range TPMT activity (in order to minimize the
risk of bone marrow toxicity) remains a matter for debate. In
addition to Gisbert et al.,56 others have reported the use of this
approach.34,59 Based on a retrospective study of 28 patients
with dermatological conditions, Snow and Gibson60 proposed
a TPMT-based, three-tier azathioprine dose schedule, with one
dose for patients with TPMT in the heterozygote range and
two incremental doses for TPMT activity in the homozygote
range. Subsequently, this regime was adapted in a pilot61 and
then a RCT of azathioprine for atopic eczema using a two-tier
regime.34 In the RCT, no patients with intermediate TPMT
activity receiving reduced azathioprine doses developed neu-
tropenia, yet efﬁcacy seemed to be maintained.34 However,
patient numbers with TPMT in the intermediate range were
small, and toxicity was not a primary outcome measure of this
study. Two studies in patients with autoimmune bullous dis-
orders have addressed the issue of TPMT activity and dosing.
A retrospective study (n = 35) showed complete remission
with no leucopenia in two intermediate-range patients (azathi-
oprine mean dose 1Æ7 mg kg)1 daily).62 In a prospective study
(n = 27), patients with normal TPMT activity received azathi-
oprine up to 250 mg per day and intermediate-range patients
received 25–75 mg per day, with no myelotoxicity occurring
over a median of 13 months.63 For suggestions on TPMT-
based azathioprine dosing based on these and other studies
see section 10.1 and Table 2.
Recommendations: TPMT and azathioprine toxicity
• There is strong evidence that baseline testing predicts severe
neutropenia in patients with absent TPMT activity (Strength of
recommendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• There is good evidence that intermediate TPMT activity is asso-
ciated with myelotoxicity in patients receiving conventional aza-
thioprine doses (Strength of recommendation B; level of evidence 2++)
• TPMT testing only identiﬁes a proportion of individuals at in-
creased risk of haematological toxicity, hence the continued
need for regular monitoring of blood counts irrespective of
TPMT status (Strength of recommendation B; level of evidence 2++)
• TPMT screening should not be declined by healthcare providers
on the basis of cost-effectiveness (see section 12.4) (Strength of
recommendation B; level of evidence 2++)
8.22 Thiopurine methyltransferase, thioguanine
nucleotides and azathioprine efﬁcacy
The link between low TPMT levels and increased risk of myel-
otoxicity was elucidated in patients with acute childhood lym-
phoblastic leukaemia receiving 6-MP.9 With this came the
parallel understanding that the concomitant high levels of
TGNs (see Fig. 1) were also associated with better survival.10
Since then the relationship between efﬁcacy and these cellular
factors has been investigated in inﬂammatory conditions trea-
ted with lower doses of thiopurines. Retrospective studies in
IBD have conﬁrmed that pretreatment measurement of TPMT
might predict clinical response to azathioprine.51,64 In a pro-
spective study of 207 patients with IBD, intermediate-range
TPMT activity was associated with a greater chance of clinical
response compared with higher enzyme activity.65
Many studies in IBD66–68 and after renal transplantation69
have now correlated TGN levels with efﬁcacy. For example, in
a prospective study of 92 paediatric patients with IBD, TGN
levels > 235 pmol per 8 · 108 red blood cells (RBCs) were
highly correlated
with a positive therapeutic
response.67
Although other studies70 (a number retrospective) have failed
to demonstrate a relationship, a meta-analysis of 12 studies on
IBD provides
evidence that higher
TGN levels (> 230–
260 pmol per 8 · 108 RBCs) are associated with increased
efﬁcacy (remission).71 Consequently, a therapeutic range for
TGNs in IBD of 235–450 pmol per 8 · 108 RBCs is now
widely cited, although there is less evidence to support the
recommended ‘toxic’ upper limit.72
Unfortunately, studies measuring TGNs in dermatological
disease are limited; one report showed the average TGN level
associated with clinical response in immunobullous disease to
be 179 pmol per 8 · 108 RBCs.63 Although conclusions
should be drawn from a single study with caution, this sug-
gests that the therapeutic threshold for TGNs, at least for
immunobullous disease, might be a little lower than IBD.
9.0 Safe use of azathioprine: review of the
evidence
Although azathioprine is effective in many inﬂammatory der-
matological diseases, side-effects are common and can restrict
use of the drug. An understanding of the potential toxic effects
is important both for safe usage and to maximize efﬁcacy.
Side-effects can be split into dose-dependent, nonallergic and
idiosyncratic dose-independent, presumed allergic. The major-
ity of adverse events cannot be explained by variations in
TPMT activity or thiopurine metabolite patterns. It is helpful to
view side-effects broadly as those occurring in the short, med-
ium and long term. When starting patients on azathioprine the
emphasis during initial consultations should be on vigilance
for potential early toxicity. Minor adverse effects are relatively
common, and either resolve spontaneously or respond to sim-
ple measures such as dose adjustment. Patients should be pre-
pared for this eventuality in order to maximize compliance.
Table 2 Suggested thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT)-based
maintenance doses for dermatological conditions
TPMT range
Azathioprine maintenance dose (mg kg)1 daily)
Absent
In general unsuitable for azathioprine
Intermediate
1Æ0–1Æ5
Normal
2Æ0–3Æ0
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
716 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
9.1 Short-term toxicity
9.11 Nausea
The most frequently observed adverse effect of azathioprine is
isolated, dose-dependent nausea. Patients with true azathio-
prine hypersensitivity also exhibit nausea as part of a wider
symptom complex, but management of these patients is differ-
ent and is described separately. Nausea early in the course of
azathioprine treatment is common and usually resolves after a
few weeks without any alteration of dose. This tendency is
reﬂected in the empirical approach of gradual dose escalation
which has been practised by prescribers for years. There are
insufﬁcient data to allow exact guidelines to be formulated for
this process. However, two recent RCTs of azathioprine for
atopic
eczema
differed
in
their
use
of
ﬁxed
dosing33
(2Æ5 mg kg)1)
vs.
dose
escalation
(e.g.
2Æ0 mg kg)1
for
4 weeks increasing to 2Æ5 mg kg)1 in patients with normal-
range TPMT activity).34 There was a 20% difference in
dropout rate between the studies due to toxicity and nonad-
herence; greater efﬁcacy overall was demonstrated in the
group receiving a lower initial dose. However, even with dose
escalation, one-quarter of patients had nausea which limited
maximum achievable dose or resulted in treatment with-
drawal.34 Several commonly used approaches to reduce nausea
in this situation include taking azathioprine with or after food,
splitting the daily dose, and co-prescription of antiemetics. If
these strategies fail, then there is also evidence that switching
to 6-MP can reduce gastrointestinal side-effects.73
Recommendations: managing nausea
(Strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
• Early, mild nausea is a common and often self-limiting side-
effect of azathioprine
• Gradual dose escalation may be useful in minimizing initial
nausea
• Moderate nausea can be managed by
s Using divided daily doses
s Taking azathioprine after food
s Temporary dose reduction
s Antiemetics
• Nausea associated with other symptoms such as fever, myalgia
or arthralgia suggests hypersensitivity and should be managed
differently (see section 9.12)
9.12 Hypersensitivity
Azathioprine hypersensitivity is an idiosyncratic, immunologi-
cally mediated reaction that presents with a distinct symptom
complex within weeks of starting the drug. It is probably
underdiagnosed, as symptoms are easily confused with infec-
tion or underlying disease.74 Hypersensitivity is a potentially
serious adverse event, although fatality appears to be rare.75
Reports are conﬁned to retrospective case series and conse-
quently the incidence is unknown. However, in a prospective
series of 79 patients with atopic eczema treated with azathio-
prine, ﬁve developed symptoms suggestive of hypersensitiv-
ity.76 It was speculated that the abnormal immunity in these
patients may increase the likelihood of drug hypersensitivity
over nonatopic individuals.34
Hypersensitivity can manifest with generalized or organ-
speciﬁc symptoms. Fever, myalgia, arthralgia and nausea are
common features; more rarely hepatitis, interstitial nephritis77
or renal failure78 are seen. In severe cases hypotension and
shock can occur.79 Rash, usually maculopapular, has been
described, but it is possible that some reported eruptions,
such as erythema nodosum,80 relate to the underlying condi-
tion rather than the hypersensitivity reaction. Pneumonitis
has been reported infrequently, mainly in renal transplant
patients and patients with IBD.81 Azathioprine-induced pan-
creatitis is also rare82 and appears to be restricted to patients
with Crohn disease83 (see section 10.83).
Conﬁrming hypersensitivity with rechallenge can produce
more severe symptoms, especially with conventional azathio-
prine doses; extreme caution is therefore recommended when
considering this approach,84 with the use of the smallest pos-
sible azathioprine dose. If symptoms of hypersensitivity were
severe, then rechallenge in a hospital setting with access
to resuscitation facilities is advised. In up to 60% of azathio-
prine-hypersensitive patients 6-MP may be a safe alterna-
tive,85–88 suggesting that in these individuals immunological
sensitivity is directed against the imidazole rather than the
thiopurine moiety of the azathioprine molecule.
9.2 Medium-term toxicity
9.21 Myelotoxicity
Bone marrow suppression, usually manifested as neutropenia,
is a potentially serious and not uncommon dose-dependent
side-effect of azathioprine. Detailed analysis of early trials on
azathioprine (which included rates of haematological adverse
events) have previously been collated and summarized.89 The
range of azathioprine-induced neutropenia in these 10 studies
was 5–30% with a mean of 19%. For a review of the relation-
ship between myelotoxicity and TPMT pharmacogenetics, see
section 8.21.
9.22 Susceptibility to infection
It is possible that azathioprine may increase susceptibility to
infection even in the absence of neutropenia, although evi-
dence for this is limited. Mild lymphopenia is quite com-
monly seen in patients receiving thiopurines90 and this may
be a relevant factor. Organ transplant recipients receiving
azathioprine in conjunction with other immunosuppressants
do have an increased risk of infections, presumably due to the
degree of immunosuppression achieved. Varicella zoster virus
(VZV) infections have been shown to occur more commonly
in patients with IBD receiving azathioprine.91 VZV infection
(chicken pox ⁄shingles) is usually a benign and self-limiting
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 717
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
disease, but patients taking immunosuppressant medication
are susceptible to more severe disease and its complications92
(see Recommendations for management of VZV in this
group). However, an increase in infections in general has not
been demonstrated in cohorts of patients with IBD93 or atopic
eczema34 receiving azathioprine monotherapy. Nevertheless,
this remains a theoretical risk and careful selection of patients
is required prior to starting azathioprine; reactivation of latent
infections such as tuberculosis has been reported.94
Recommendations: managing VZV in patients
receiving azathioprine92
(Strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
• Consider temporary withdrawal of azathioprine
• Prompt use of oral antivirals (aciclovir, valaciclovir or famciclo-
vir) in all patients
• Intravenous antiviral therapy desirable for disseminated or oph-
thalmic VZV
9.23 Hepatotoxicity
Mild derangement of liver blood tests due to azathioprine is
not uncommon and usually has no serious clinical implica-
tions. In contrast, severe hepatotoxicity is rare. Liver injury
occurs in two patterns: (i) acute idiosyncratic drug-induced
liver injury (DILI) and (ii) nodular regenerative hyperplasia.
The former may either be cholestatic (bilirubin and alkaline
phosphatase disproportionately raised compared with transam-
inases) or hepatocellular (transaminases raised disproportion-
ately). Previous classiﬁcations of DILI as either hypersensitivity
or dose-dependent are now not considered helpful [G. Aithal
(University Hospitals NHS trust, Nottingham, U.K.), personal
communication].
Nodular regenerative hyperplasia seems to be exclusive to
patients with IBD and organ transplant recipients, and can
occur after several years of azathioprine therapy. In contrast,
other forms of thiopurine-induced liver injury occur most
commonly during the ﬁrst few months of therapy and usually
resolve completely on azathioprine withdrawal.95 In compari-
son with hepatocellular DILI, cholestatic injury takes longer to
resolve after stopping azathioprine and in some cases has pro-
gressed despite drug withdrawal.95 For both forms of DILI,
there is no incidence data speciﬁc to dermatological conditions
in azathioprine-treated patients, although useful inferences can
be drawn from a recent systematic review of hepatotoxicity in
patients with IBD. The study included 2992 patients and dem-
onstrated a mean annual DILI rate (abnormal liver blood tests
per patient-year) of 1Æ4%.95 However, patients with inﬂamma-
tory skin disease and patients with IBD may have different
susceptibilities to azathioprine-induced liver damage.
In the relatively common situation of mild derangement of
liver blood tests, values often return to normal without alter-
ation of dose or drug withdrawal, a phenomenon termed
adaption. The following approaches should be used if abnor-
malities persist or worsen:95 when initial abnormalities are
not transient or are marked (a precise cut-off point has not
been determined, but a guide for transaminases would be
greater than twice the upper limit of normal), an initial dose
reduction of 50% is recommended;95 if values normalize, the
initial dose may cautiously be prescribed again with more
frequent monitoring of liver blood tests thereafter.95 This
approach was used in the only prospective study of thiopurine
hepatotoxicity to date; almost half the patients were subse-
quently able to continue on the full dose.96
In contrast to the increased likelihood of myelotoxicity with
low TPMT activity, several studies suggest that TPMT activity
in the high normal range may confer an increased risk of liver
damage from thiopurine drugs, probably due to elevated levels
of methylated thiopurine metabolites [predominantly methyl-
mercaptopurine riboside (MeMPR), see Fig. 1].97,98 In a study
of 173 patients with IBD treated with azathioprine or 6-MP,
4Æ6% developed hepatotoxicity; mean MeMPR levels were
signiﬁcantly higher in these patients compared to those with
no adverse effects.99 However, 90% of patients with high
MeMPR levels above the third quartile had no hepatotoxicity,
while 40% of patients with hepatotoxicity had normal MeMPR
levels below this cut-off. Therefore, with such poor sensitivity
and speciﬁcity the measurement of MeMPR is neither superior
to, nor should it replace, the routine monitoring of liver
blood tests to screen for azathioprine-induced hepatotoxicity.
Recommendations: managing hepatotoxicity
(Strength of recommendation B; level of evidence 2++)
• Mild derangement of liver blood tests is not uncommon and
may not require alteration of therapy
• Various patterns of serious liver injury can more rarely be seen
at any stage of azathioprine therapy
• Detection of any abnormal liver blood tests should prompt both
careful evaluation and increased frequency of repeat testing;
dose reduction or drug withdrawal may be needed
9.3 Long-term toxicity
9.31 Carcinogenesis
Background
One paradox of the action of thiopurine drugs is their efﬁcacy
against some malignancies such as acute lymphoblastic leukae-
mia, but carcinogenicity in other situations. However, with
the possible exception of skin cancer, it is unlikely that azathi-
oprine, when used within certain constraints for dermato-
logical
diseases,
results
in
any
measurable
or
clinically
important increase in risk of developing malignancy. This area
is both controversial and complex and requires careful discus-
sion with patients (see section 10.82).
Before prescribing any immunosuppressant drug, it is worth
considering that the past few years have seen a revolution in
the treatment of some inﬂammatory skin diseases. There has
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
718 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
been a vast increase in the use of novel immunosuppressants
with unknown long-term safety proﬁles. These drugs are now
superseding more traditional therapies such as thiopurines. In
contrast, epidemiological data on the long-term toxicity of
thiopurines are available from several medical disciplines. This
safety record should be borne in mind and be part of the
general discussion with a patient when choosing an immuno-
suppressant therapy.
Ultraviolet radiation and skin cancer
It is widely recognized that the risk of developing nonmel-
anoma skin cancer (NMSC) is increased by the long-term
administration of azathioprine to solid-organ transplant recipi-
ents. The co-prescription of several immunosuppressants in
this situation is likely to be a major contributor to this
risk,100,101 which may be elevated more than 200-fold.102
There is also evidence of skin cancer risk in thiopurine-treated
patients with IBD.103 Recently, a nested case–control study104
of 742 cases of NMSC and 2968 matched controls (both
groups of IBD patients) showed there to be a signiﬁcant asso-
ciation with new NMSC and thiopurine use for longer than
1 year (adjusted OR 4Æ3; 95% CI 3Æ1–6Æ0). The use of antitu-
mour necrosis factor (TNF) agents, but not MTX, mycopheno-
late or ciclosporin, was also signiﬁcantly associated with
NMSC development. These results implicate thiopurines above
other immunosuppressants in the development of NMSC in
the IBD population. Although there are no studies addressing
this issue for inﬂammatory skin disease, the results from the
IBD study clearly have important implications for dermatology
patients receiving azathioprine for more than 1 year.
Considerable progress has recently been made in determin-
ing the mechanism of photocarcinogenesis by the combination
of thiopurine drugs and ultraviolet (UV) radiation. UVA wave-
lengths (320–400 nm), which account for 95% of solar UV
radiation, are poorly absorbed by purines in DNA and are
normally considered to be less harmful than UVB. However,
6-TG has a maximum absorbance at 340 nm. Absorption of
UVA photons by 6-TG-substituted DNA generates reactive
oxygen species which cause lethal and mutagenic DNA dam-
age and may then permit the development of NMSCs.105,106
Consistent with this, azathioprine administration has been
shown to confer increased UVA sensitivity in normal skin,
demonstrated by reduced minimal erythema doses to UVA.107
Taken together, both epidemiological and laboratory data
suggest that UV exposure is an important carcinogenic hazard
for thiopurine-treated patients. This has major implications for
dermatology patients receiving long-term azathioprine therapy
and the need for education about rigorous photoprotection is
highly important.
One group of thiopurine-treated patients that deserves spe-
cial consideration is organ transplant recipients who may have
already developed multiple dysplastic keratoses and NMSCs.
This group poses a particular therapeutic challenge; they
should ideally be examined regularly in dedicated dermatology
clinics by clinicians with an interest in skin cancer and all
patients should be educated to report any skin lesions that
develop in intervening periods. For new transplant patients,
management should be proactive with education about sun
protection beginning at the time of (or even before) trans-
plantation.108 For those transplant patients who continue to
develop NMSCs, there is some evidence to suggest that switch-
ing from azathioprine to drugs with a lower theoretical risk of
photocarcinogenesis, such as mycophenolate mofetil or siroli-
mus, may result in a reduced frequency of cancer and precan-
cerous keratoses.109
Lymphoma risk
Prolonged use of azathioprine in combination with other im-
munosuppressants in solid-organ transplant recipients increases
the risk of developing several malignancies, with non-Hodg-
kin’s lymphoma occurring second only in frequency to
NMSC.110 Much of the risk may be attributable to the inten-
sity of immunosuppression rather than azathioprine per se, and
oncogenic viruses such as Epstein–Barr virus are thought to be
a major factor.110,111 Most malignancies occur early, usually
in the ﬁrst year after transplant. This chronology contrasts
with UV-related NMSC development, which mainly develops
after approximately 10 years of immunosuppression,102 sug-
gesting that there are different mechanisms for internal and
cutaneous carcinogenesis.
Whether there is also a risk of internal malignancy, in partic-
ular lymphoma, in nontransplant patients treated with azathio-
prine monotherapy is controversial. There are no useful data
for dermatology patients, but there is important literature from
the IBD population. Two meta-analyses have addressed the
issue and the conclusions are conﬂicting. Kandiel et al.112 con-
cluded that there was an approximately fourfold greater risk of
developing lymphoma with long-term thiopurine therapy
(3891 patients). This would translate to one additional lymph-
oma for every 300–4500 years of treatment, depending on the
age of the patient. However, there have been criticisms of the
method used in this meta-analysis,113 and whether the calcu-
lated risk was due to treatment or the underlying disease was
not convincingly demonstrated.111 Masunaga et al.,114 in a sub-
sequent meta-analysis failed to ﬁnd any increased risk of malig-
nancy (4039 patients). Unlike the study by Kandiel et al.,
which used data obtained from the general population as a
control, Masanuga et al. used a control population of patients
with IBD who had not received immunosuppression. Since
then, a large prospective cohort study by Beaugerie et al.115 in
19 486 patients with IBD has shown a signiﬁcant association
between thiopurine use and the incidence of lymphoma
(hazard ratio 5Æ3; 95% CI 2Æ0–14). However, the authors
acknowledge that the excess risk may also relate to the underly-
ing IBD activity. The gut was affected in six of the 23 patients
who developed a lymphoproliferative disorder, often in intesti-
nal segments affected by IBD; this might also suggest that
disease activity was an important factor in carcinogenesis. Most
recently, in a retrospective cohort of 17 834 patients with IBD
no overall increased risk of lymphoma was found.116 Although
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 719
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
this study, unlike that by Beaugerie et al., was not designed to
investigate risk with azathioprine ⁄6-MP, it is interesting to
note that 11 out of 12 patients who developed Epstein–Barr-
positive lymphoma had used thiopurines, compared with four
of 21 patients with Epstein–Barr-negative lymphoma.116
Given that the results of these studies are contradictory, and
that IBD itself may confer a risk of malignancy, it is difﬁcult
to know what advice to give regarding lymphoma risk
to patients with dermatoses that may require prolonged
azathioprine therapy. However, if there is an increased long-
term risk, this would appear to be low in absolute terms. Fur-
thermore, studies of azathioprine use in the short-to-medium
term do not appear to show an excess of internal can-
cers.117,118 Taken together these data suggest the best ap-
proach would be to restrict courses of azathioprine to the
short-to-medium term. Those patients requiring long-term
treatment who have no other therapeutic alternatives should
be counselled about the possible malignancy risk but advised
that this, if increased, is likely to be small.
10.0 How and when should azathioprine be
prescribed?
10.1 Dosing
The Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) for azathio-
prine recommends a starting dose of 1–3 mg kg)1 daily
(with larger doses recommended in transplantation).119 The
dose should be adjusted within these limits depending on
response
and
haematological
tolerance,
with
subsequent
reduction for maintenance therapy following clinical response.
The therapeutic effects of azathioprine often take several
months to become apparent after initiation of therapy, and
similarly the effects of dose reduction or cessation of therapy
may also be delayed, possibly due to persistence of active
drug metabolites. Doses at the lower end of the range are rec-
ommended in patients with renal and ⁄or hepatic impairment
or in the elderly (see section 10.51, 10.52 and 10.65).
The doses required for skin diseases largely conform to the
general recommendations of the SPC. Apart from studies relat-
ing dose to TPMT status (see below), there have been no rec-
ommendations on dosimetry related to either the indication
for use or whether monotherapy or combination with oral
corticosteroids is needed. A strategy for dose reduction for
patients in remission has not been addressed in studies of der-
matological diseases, and remains a matter for empirical titra-
tion by the clinician.
Although it is clear that patients with absent TPMT activity
(TPMT null) should in general not receive azathioprine (or 6-
MP), in rare circumstances a greatly reduced dose may be
used (approximately 5–10% of standard), with very careful
monitoring of the full blood count (FBC) and metabo-
lites,11,120 but even then patients may develop leucopenia.121
Table 2 shows suggested TPMT-based maintenance dose
ranges for the treatment of dermatological conditions (see sec-
tion 8.21). The use of lower initial doses (e.g. for the ﬁrst
4 weeks of therapy) is also recommended in order to mini-
mize early side-effects such as nausea (see section 9.11).
Table 2 is adapted from Snow and Gibson,60 Meggitt and Rey-
nolds,61 Meggitt et al.,34 Gardiner et al.122 and Bezier et al.,62
and reﬂects the range of doses successfully used in studies
comparing patients with heterozygous vs. homozygous wild-
type TPMT phenotype. It should be emphasized that collec-
tively the number of heterozygous range patients in these
reports
was
small.
Consequently,
these
recommendations
should serve as a guide for current use, in anticipation of in-
formation from future studies with larger patient numbers.
Recommendations: azathioprine dosing
• Patients with normal TPMT activity are at low risk of profound
neutropenia and can be prescribed azathioprine at conventional
doses (see Table 2) (Strength of recommendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• Patients with intermediate (heterozygous) range TPMT activity
treated with conventional thiopurine doses have an increased
risk of neutropenia and should receive a lower azathioprine
maintenance dose (see Table 2 for suggested dose regimen)
(Strength of recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
• Patients with absent TPMT activity (TPMT null) treated with
conventional azathioprine doses are at very high risk of pro-
found neutropenia and should in general not be prescribed aza-
thioprine (Strength of recommendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• Side-effects such as dose-dependent nausea may be minimized
by building up to the recommended maintenance dose over the
ﬁrst few weeks of therapy (Strength of recommendation D; level of
evidence 4)
10.2 Contraindications
There are few absolute contraindications to the use of azathio-
prine, but those listed in the manufacturer’s data sheet119 are:
hypersensitivity
to
azathioprine ⁄6-MP;
severe
infections;
severely impaired hepatic or bone marrow function; pancreati-
tis; live vaccines (section 10.71); pregnancy unless beneﬁts
outweigh risks (section 10.62); and lactation (section 10.63).
In hypersensitive patients, desensitization to azathioprine
and 6-MP has been successfully attempted,123 but this cannot
be recommended as its safety is unproven. Pregnancy is a rela-
tive contraindication (see section 10.62) and women taking
azathioprine are advised to not breastfeed their infants,
although more recent data suggest this may be safe (see sec-
tion 10.63). It is not usually recommended that azathioprine
is initiated or continued in patients with known malignancy,
as immunosuppression may increase the risk of disease pro-
gression.
There are also several relative contraindications to azathio-
prine use that are not included in the SPC. Discussion of the
following issues is covered in subsequent sections of these
guidelines: (i) renal impairment (section 10.51); (ii) viral
hepatitis (section 10.53); (iii) human immunodeﬁciency virus
(HIV) infection (section 10.54); (iv) previous varicella zoster
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
720 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
virus exposure (section 10.55); (v) premalignancy (section
10.56).
10.3 Baseline blood tests
FBC with differential white cell count, renal function and liver
blood tests including transaminases (alanine aminotransferase
or aspartate aminotransferase) should be determined as a base-
line.
10.4 Baseline thiopurine methyltransferase
activity
A growing body of evidence supports the assessment of TPMT
activity prior to starting azathioprine. U.K. dermatologists have
played a leading role in advocating this test as good clinical
practice, but its uptake has varied among other disciplines and
countries. A U.K. survey in 2006 found that although nearly
all dermatologists, gastroenterologists and rheumatologists pre-
scribe azathioprine, the respective rates of TPMT testing
were 90%, 60% and 47%.124 A similar survey among gast-
roenterologists in three states of the U.S.A. found that
although only 35% reported measuring TPMT levels, 46%
used adjunctive metabolite (TGN) monitoring to assist man-
agement125 (see section 13.0). It is widely cited that TPMT
activity may be induced by thiopurines58 and that consequent-
ly measurement of TPMT in patients currently receiving aza-
thioprine is not advised, as values may be falsely elevated.
However, some studies have failed to demonstrate any induc-
tion of TPMT by concomitant thiopurine use,48,126,127 but
have shown repeat TPMT measurements in individuals on
therapy to be highly variable.
Genotyping or phenotyping techniques can be used to
determine TPMT status, but genotyping is not routinely
used.124 TPMT phenotyping is based on RBC enzymatic activ-
ity and this can be affected by recent blood transfusion. TPMT
activity exhibits a trimodal distribution;3 this reﬂects the three
different allele combinations. Results are usually reported in
three ranges corresponding to the presumed TPMT genotype.
(i) Homozygous mutant (TPMT null), i.e. two copies of the
variant allele (described as absent ⁄very low TPMT activity,
depending on the laboratory). (ii) Heterozygous, i.e. one copy
of a variant allele (most commonly described as intermediate
enzyme activity; this terminology is adhered to throughout
these guidelines). It should be noted that some laboratories
may describe this range as ‘low’ TPMT activity. This may
result in unnecessary confusion, as clinicians could errone-
ously assume the patient is in the TPMT null, ‘absent ⁄very
low’ TPMT activity group. (iii) Homozygous wild-type, i.e.
two functional copies of the active gene (described as
high ⁄normal enzyme activity, depending on the reporting lab-
oratory).
Phenotyping is the preferred method of assessment, with
genotyping reserved for patients with borderline results and
those in whom a blood transfusion has recently been carried
out128 (see section 12.3).
Recommendations: baseline TPMT activity
• TPMT activity should be checked in all patients prior to receiv-
ing azathioprine (Strength of recommendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• Clinicians should ensure they take into account differences in
TPMT activity reporting practices across the U.K., in order to be
certain of the likely genotypic group of their patients (Strength of
recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
• TPMT genotyping is only required for patients with indeterminate
phenotype (i.e. borderline values) or those who have had a recent
blood transfusion (Strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
10.5 Other baseline considerations
10.51 Renal impairment
The British National Formulary (BNF) advises that dose reduc-
tion may be needed in renal impairment.129 However, the man-
ufacturer’s data sheet states that controlled studies do not show
enhanced toxicity in the presence of renal insufﬁciency.119 Nev-
ertheless, it is recommended that the dosages used should be at
the lower end of the normal range and that FBC should be care-
fully monitored. The dosage should be further reduced if hae-
matological toxicity occurs. Azathioprine dose does not need to
be altered in those undergoing haemodialysis.130
10.52 Hepatic disease
The
SPC
advises
cautious
azathioprine
administration
in
patients with hepatic dysfunction, with regular monitoring of
blood count and liver blood tests.119 In such patients, drug
metabolism may be impaired, and the azathioprine dosage
should therefore be reduced if hepatic or haematological tox-
icity occurs.
10.53 Viral hepatitis
Approximately one-third of the world’s population has sero-
logical evidence of past or present infection with hepatitis B
virus (HBV).131 Individuals positive for HBV surface antigen
(HBsAg) are at risk of a ﬂare in disease if given immunosup-
pressant drugs including azathioprine.132,133 Furthermore, the
development of acute liver failure in previously well carriers of
HBV is well recognized after withdrawal of immunosuppres-
sive therapy.132–134 Measurement of transaminases does not
reliably detect all infected individuals, as these may be inter-
mittently normal during the immune tolerant phase of infec-
tion. Consequently, the European Association for the Study of
the Liver (EASL) recommends that all candidates for immuno-
suppressant treatment should be screened for HBsAg and
anti-HBV core antibodies (anti-HBc) prior to the initiation of
treatment. Similarly, baseline screening for hepatitis C virus
(HCV) should be considered in all patients. EASL also recommend
vaccination against HBV in those who are seronegative. There-
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 721
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
fore, this approach should be part of the baseline screening for
treatment with azathioprine, and a hepatitis-risk history should
also be taken. Prior to initiation of azathioprine, all serologi-
cally positive cases should be discussed with the local team
experienced in the management of HBV infection (hepatology
or infectious diseases), and prophylactic antiviral therapy con-
sidered on a case-by-case basis, dependent on factors such as
the risk of liver disease and HBV viral load [M. Prince
(Manchester Royal Inﬁrmary, Manchester, U.K.), personal
communication].
10.54 Human immunodeﬁciency virus infection
There are no speciﬁc recommendations regarding generic
screening for HIV prior to commencing azathioprine, but in
those with risk factors, baseline HIV status should be estab-
lished. Treated HIV infection is not necessarily a contraindica-
tion to the use of immunosuppressive agents;
there is
growing experience of the safe concurrent use of azathioprine
and other immunosuppressants in HIV-positive organ trans-
plant recipients whose disease is stable and has been treated
with
highly
active
antiretroviral
therapy
for
at
least
12 months.135,136 Initiation of azathioprine in patients with
HIV infection should only be undertaken after consulting
those with special expertise in HIV medicine.
10.55 Previous varicella zoster virus exposure
All patients who may require treatment with azathioprine
should be asked whether they have had chickenpox. For those
who are uncertain about previous exposure, VZV serology
should be checked. For the nonimmune, administration of
VZV vaccine should ideally occur several weeks prior to com-
mencement of azathioprine therapy, as the vaccine is live.137
Importantly, the Department of Health ‘Immunisation against
infectious diseases – the Green Book’137 also advises against
administration of all live vaccines (including VZV) to patients
receiving immunosuppressants such as azathioprine. This U.K.
advice contrasts with the guidance from the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention,138 which states that VZV vac-
cine may be given to persons with impaired humoral immun-
ity, including those receiving azathioprine £ 3Æ0 mg kg)1
daily. However, a degree of impaired cellular immunity may
also occur with azathioprine [G. Spickett (Royal Victoria Inﬁr-
mary, Newcastle upon Tyne, U.K.), personal communication].
Consequently, these guidelines recommend adhering to the
Green Book’s advice, but difﬁcult cases would be best dis-
cussed individually with an immunologist, particularly as
administration of vaccine prior to azathioprine treatment may
not always be practically possible, given that ‘the disadvantages
of delaying immunosuppression are often signiﬁcant’.137 In the
rare situation when nonimmune individuals receive azathio-
prine and subsequently have ‘signiﬁcant exposure’ to chicken
pox or herpes zoster, then protocols deﬁning this exposure and
outlining the administration of VZV immunoglobulin and ⁄or
prophylactic aciclovir are detailed in the Green Book.137
10.56 Premalignancy
Patients receiving immunosuppressant drugs have an increased
frequency of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), and in
these patients the risk of progression to invasive disease is
higher and the success rate of treatment is lower.139 There is
some debate whether immunosuppressed patients should be
screened more frequently, and in some European centres
annual
cytology
combined
with
colposcopy
is
recom-
mended.139 Data from the renal transplant population (receiv-
ing multiple immunosuppressive agents) suggests a ﬁvefold
increase in the prevalence of abnormal cervical cytology
(15%) above the normal population.140 However, there is no
information on risk in dermatology patients on single immu-
nosuppressant drugs such as azathioprine. Nevertheless, it
would be sound practice to ensure that, prior to receiving aza-
thioprine, women have been concordant with the national
cervical screening programme, and a pretreatment gynaecolog-
ical review should be requested in those patients with previ-
ous CIN.
Guidelines exist for the management of premalignant skin le-
sions in immunosuppressed solid-organ transplant recipients. A
baseline dermatological examination is recommended in these
patients prior to transplantation, and dysplastic keratoses should
be treated before (or soon after) starting azathioprine ther-
apy.108 Similar guidelines do not exist for azathioprine use in
other contexts, but given what is now known about the risks of
NMSC with prolonged azathioprine monotherapy for IBD,104 it
would be wise to adopt a similar approach in any circumstance
when long-term administration of the drug is likely.
10.6 Special groups
10.61 Male fertility
Several studies indicate that male patients receiving azathio-
prine father healthy children, and that azathioprine at standard
doses does not appear to affect male fertility.141,142
10.62 Pregnancy
Both azathioprine and 6-MP cross the placenta and the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration categorizes azathioprine as risk
group D, indicating ‘positive evidence of fetal risk is available,
but the beneﬁts may outweigh the risk in life-threatening or
serious disease’. However, the literature is inconclusive on any
teratogenic effects.143 Most investigators have found azathio-
prine to be relatively safe in pregnancy and its use in trans-
plant recipients is not associated with any increased risk of
congenital defects, although this group is at increased risk of
premature birth and small-for-dates babies.144 One case report
has even shown a healthy child born to parents who were
both receiving thiopurines.145 The general conclusion never-
theless is to limit use of azathioprine in pregnancy to those
with severe disease, particularly if there is no safer alternative
treatment.143
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
722 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
10.63 Lactation
The manufacturer’s data sheet states that breastfeeding is con-
traindicated in women receiving azathioprine.119 However,
several studies have shown that the drug and its metabolites
are either absent or present in negligible amounts in breast
milk.146,147 Although the World Health Organization (WHO)
has previously recommended that the risks of azathioprine to
the infant outweigh the beneﬁts of breast milk, a recent review
has suggested that the drug may be safe in this scenario.143
10.64 Children
A retrospective evaluation of 48 children has reported azathio-
prine to be a safe and effective treatment for children with
atopic eczema when high-risk patients were excluded by
TPMT measurement.59 Higher doses than those used in adults
were often required (2Æ5–3Æ5 mg kg)1). Similarly, a study of
children with IBD aged 6 years and under showed that higher
dosages (> 3 mg kg)1 daily) were needed in order to achieve
clinical remission.148 The authors postulated that the underly-
ing reason was decreased drug absorption.
In view of the concerns surrounding prolonged use of aza-
thioprine and risk of malignancy, careful consideration should
be exercised if long-term use of the drug is needed in chil-
dren. In particular, as it is now known that the risk of photo-
carcinogenesis escalates with increasing duration of thiopurine
treatment (see section 9.31), then advice on photoprotection
is essential, and adherence to this should be assessed at fol-
low-up visits.
10.65 Elderly
Care should be taken with use of azathioprine in the elderly; the
SPC recommends that additional care should be taken with hae-
matological monitoring and that doses used should be at the
lower end of the recommended range.119 Increasing age is asso-
ciated with an increased risk of drug interactions due to poly-
pharmacy
and, in
the solid-organ
transplant population,
increased vulnerability to immunosuppression-related infec-
tions.149 A recent prospective study of azathioprine monother-
apy for inﬂammatory diseases has also shown the elderly to
have a signiﬁcant higher incidence of all categories of side-
effects.4
10.7 Drug interactions
A few drugs have important interactions with azathioprine
and these are summarized in Table 3. There is also a large cat-
egory of drugs which may interact but the evidence for this is
less strong. This group encompasses drugs with the theoretical
potential for interactions but with little or no supporting clini-
cal data, or case reports of queried drug interactions in limited
numbers of patients. Unfortunately, these categories are often
described collectively and indiscriminately, with the result that
some of the less deﬁnite associations are subsequently cited in
a manner that suggests clinically important interactions occur
(including in the SPC and BNF).
10.71 Deﬁnite interactions
Allopurinol and febuxostat
The most potentially serious azathioprine drug interaction
occurs with xanthine oxidase inhibitors (data only available
for allopurinol but in theory febuxostat should have a similar
effect). Combined use carries a substantially increased risk of
myelotoxicity.150,151 However, co-prescription of these drugs
with dose reduction and under strict monitoring may improve
efﬁcacy in the event of nonresponse to azathioprine alone.
This issue is covered in detail in Section 13.4. Such an
approach should be considered experimental at present, as
there is insufﬁcient evidence of safety or efﬁcacy to advocate
its use in dermatology patients.
Table 3 What drugs can interact with azathioprine?a
Drug
Risks ⁄interactions
Allopurinol and febuxostat
Risk of severe, life-threatening myelotoxicity
Immunosuppressant drugs
Combination with other drugs such as cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and ciclosporin increases the
risk of myelotoxicity
Drugs that can cause
haematological ADRs
Caution is advised when considering concomitant use with drugs such as co-trimoxazole, trimethoprim and
clozapine
Warfarin
Warfarin resistance is reported and warfarin dose may need to be increased. Close monitoring of
anticoagulation is advised
Ribavirin
Severe pancytopenia has been reported. This drug inhibits IMPD, an enzyme in the purine salvage pathway
Live vaccines
Should not be prescribed to immunocompromised individuals
Aminosalicylates
Inhibit TPMT in vitro but the clinical importance of this is unknown. The drugs are often co-prescribed for
IBD and increased monitoring of FBC is advised
aSection 10.7 provides a full discussion of these drugs and also considers possible interactions which are listed in other publications but are
based on weak evidence only. These include succinylcholine, tubocurarine, furosemide, bendroﬂumethiazide, nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory
drugs and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. ADR, adverse drug reaction; FBC, full blood count; IBD, inﬂammatory bowel disease;
IMPD, inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase; TPMT, thiopurine methyltransferase.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 723
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
Warfarin
A series of case reports have documented that azathioprine
and 6-MP are associated with warfarin resistance.152,153 The
onset is rapid. A dose-dependent increase in warfarin therapy
(at least 2Æ5-fold) and careful monitoring of coagulation is
therefore required when these drugs are co-administered. The
exact mechanism of the interaction is unknown.
Ribavirin
The antiviral drug ribavirin is an inhibitor of inosine mono-
phosphate dehydrogenase (IMPD). Severe pancytopenia has
been reported in a series of patients treated with azathioprine
and ribavirin,154,155 with bone marrow suppression reaching
a nadir between 3 and 6 weeks after initiation of ribavirin for
treatment of HCV.154
Other immunosuppressant and myelotoxic drugs
The risk of haematological adverse reactions is increased when
azathioprine is used with any drug which has a potential my-
elotoxic effect. This includes both immunosuppressants such
as cyclophosphamide, MTX, ciclosporin, anti-TNF agents and
other biologics, and drugs which can cause unintended myel-
otoxicity. The list of these latter drugs is large; important
examples are co-trimoxazole, trimethoprim and clozapine.
Caution must be exercised with co-prescription of azathio-
prine and any of these drugs, and more frequent monitoring
of the FBC is advised.
Vaccines
Severe complications may result from the administration of live-
attenuated vaccines to immunocompromised individuals and
such vaccines are therefore contraindicated in patients receiving
azathioprine. Live vaccines available in the U.K. include bacillus
Calmette–Gue´rin (BCG), varicella (see section 10.55), measles,
mumps, rubella, yellow fever, oral polio and oral typhoid. Inac-
tivated vaccines are safe in immunocompromised patients. All
azathioprine-treated individuals should receive pneumococcal
vaccine and yearly inﬂuenza vaccination. Studies in transplant
recipients receiving azathioprine have shown this group to
mount a similar antibody response to healthy controls.156 Fur-
ther information is available in the Department of Health ‘Im-
munisation against infectious disease – the Green Book’.137
10.72 Possible interactions
Aminosalicylates
Aminosalicylates cause in vitro inhibition of TPMT but whether
this translates to increased incidence of neutropenia in the
clinical setting remains unclear. Gastroenterologists continue
to co-prescribe these drugs and more cautious dosing and in-
creased monitoring is advised.157
Other drugs (interactions unlikely)
The manufacturer’s datasheet suggests that azathioprine may
alter neuromuscular blockade by succinylcholine and tubocu-
rarine, and advises that patients should inform their anaesthe-
tist prior to receiving a general anaesthetic.119 However, this
is based on studies performed with supratherapeutic doses of
azathioprine in animals158,159 and there is no evidence to sug-
gest a clinically important interaction in humans.
Furosemide,160
bendroﬂumethiazide161
and
some
non-
steroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs162 have been found to cause
a degree of inhibition of TPMT ex vivo, but these reports are of
unclear clinical relevance. Anaemia was reported with azathio-
prine and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors163 but in
a follow-up paper the same authors concluded that an inter-
action was not likely,164 and no further reports have emerged
since (Table 3).
10.8 Patient counselling
These guidelines attempt to establish an explicit link between
evidence and recommendations for clinical usage. However,
this may be difﬁcult as decisions in clinical medicine are made
in relation to single patients in a setting that may not relate to
the context from which the guideline recommendation has
been made. Nevertheless, the following general principles for
azathioprine prescribing are in widespread usage by dermatol-
ogists and are generally accepted as good clinical practice.
10.81 Pretreatment discussion
Prior to prescribing azathioprine, dermatologists and nurses
routinely discuss the drug with their patients, who are reliant
on this guidance as their main source of information. It is
therefore crucial that they are provided with a complete and
balanced overview of the advantages and disadvantages of
treatment. The prescriber should bear in mind that the pros-
pect of commencing a long-term treatment which carries
potential health risks may be an unnerving experience for any
individual. It is essential, therefore, that the patient is both
fully informed and takes part in the decision-making process.
Initial discussion typically involves a broad-brush approach
which attempts to give the patient some basic information
about the immune system, provide a rationale for the use of
azathioprine and place the drug in the context of other thera-
peutic options. Alternative immunosuppressant drugs which
may be prescribed at a later date in the event of a poor thera-
peutic response or side-effects with azathioprine should also
be discussed. The dermatologist must not overdramatize start-
ing such treatment for fear of causing unnecessary alarm.
Thus, a delicate line is adhered to that seeks to inform without
causing anxiety.
Finally, as the issues discussed are novel and complex for
most patients, it is essential to provide a patient information
leaﬂet (PIL) after the initial discussion; this should be docu-
mented in the patient’s medical notes. Written information
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
724 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
must describe all aspects of azathioprine treatment in clear and
unambiguous lay terms. Often, the patient will not remember
details of the discussion and a PIL will allow information to
be considered and discussed with family if necessary. Deci-
sion-making may require careful thought over a period of
time, sometimes with more than one consultation to discuss
the pros and cons with the dermatologist. The need for a
period of consideration is aided by the fact that the onset of a
therapeutic response with azathioprine is usually slow, and it
is seldom necessary to prescribe this drug in haste. This
permits prescribing characterized by shared patient–physician
decision-making that is well informed and thoughtful.
Before starting azathioprine, patients are typically focused
on trying to gauge the potential risks and beneﬁts of this
drug. A detailed knowledge of the hazards of azathioprine
treatment (see section 9.0) allows the dermatologist to discuss
these risks and to set them in context. Ultimately, it is often
hard for patients to decide on the best course of action; the
well-informed dermatologist with excellent communication
skills and sufﬁcient time to cover all angles is a precious
resource to patients when faced with this difﬁcult choice.
10.82 Discussion of cancer risk with patients
The issue of carcinogenesis and thiopurine administration is
considered in detail in section 9.31. This topic is often difﬁ-
cult to discuss with patients without causing undue concern;
many will have chronic, severe inﬂammatory diseases that
need immunosuppressive therapy in order to improve quality
of life: in the majority these beneﬁts will far outweigh the
small risk of cancer. The clinician must then tread a ﬁne line
between assessing the need for azathioprine treatment and
providing a balanced appraisal of cancer risk. Otherwise, this
could deter some patients with debilitating conditions from
having an effective and safe treatment. There are two impor-
tant areas that require discussion: ﬁrst the risk of photocarci-
nogenesis (section 9.31), and second the evidence relating to
internal malignancy risk (section 9.31).
10.83 Withdrawal of previous advice (pancreatitis)
The previous version of this guideline advised that clinicians
should warn patients about the risk of developing pancreatitis
with azathioprine, but there is now evidence that there is neg-
ligible risk in dermatology patients, and consequently there is
no obligation for dermatologists to discuss this extremely rare
side-effect with patients (see section 9.12).
Clinic checklist for use prior to prescribing
azathioprine
1 Explain that the onset of therapeutic beneﬁt with azathioprine
is slow and may not be apparent for 2–3 months. Patient ex-
pectations need to be realistic
2 Emphasize the need for toxicity monitoring with regular blood
tests. Patients unable to comply should not be given the drug
3 Explain if usage is for a licensed or unlicensed indication. For
unlicensed indications give a clear explanation of prescribing
precedent
4 Advise patients to seek urgent medical attention if they
develop signs or symptoms of azathioprine hypersensitivity,
bone marrow suppression or liver impairment. Speciﬁcally
warn patient about:
(a) High fever ⁄severe ﬂu-like illness
(b) Unexplained bruising
(c) New-onset jaundice
5 Ensure there are no contraindications to azathioprine use (sec-
tion 10.2)
6 Check results of baseline investigations (section 10.3):
(a) FBC
(b) Urea and electrolytes
(c) Liver blood tests
(d) TPMT activity (rarely also genotype – sections 10.4 and
12.3)
(e) Hepatitis B and C serology (section 10.53)
(f) HIV serology, especially in high-risk groups (section
10.54)
(g) VZV serology (if no history of varicella)
7 Give special consideration to the following:
(a) Children and the elderly (sections 10.64 and 10.65)
(b) Hepatic and renal impairment (sections 10.51 and 10.52)
(c) Premalignancy, i.e. CIN and actinic keratoses (section
10.56)
(d) Breastfeeding (section 10.63)
(e) VZV nonimmune: immunization required (section 10.71)
(f) HBV nonimmune: consider immunization in at-risk groups
(section 10.53)
(g) Positive HIV serology (section 10.54)
8 Advise on the need for pneumococcal vaccine and a yearly
inﬂuenza vaccination (section 10.71)
9 Discuss the possible increased risk of malignancy with long-
term use (section 9.31)
10 Give advice on sunscreens and sun avoidance
11 Caution regarding avoidance of pregnancy (section 10.62)
12 Warn about potential drug interactions (also detailed in the
PIL)
13 When possible, formulate a plan for duration and eventual
withdrawal of therapy
14 Supply with a PIL (if not previously) and record provision in
case notes
11.0 How should azathioprine treatment be
monitored?
11.1 Follow-up visits
At each visit, the dermatologist should seek to assess efﬁcacy
of treatment and other possible treatment-related problems.
Patients should be asked how they feel the drug is working,
and if adverse events are reported it is helpful to know if these
are sufﬁciently compensated for by a positive therapeutic
response. The dermatologist should enquire about the patient’s
general health and other possible comorbidities that might be
relevant to azathioprine usage. Each appointment also presents
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 725
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 16 ===
an opportunity for azathioprine dose adjustment depending
on adverse events and efﬁcacy. Patients also appreciate discus-
sion of their blood test results; even if these are normal, being
kept up to date provides valuable reassurance.
Patients should be reminded at each follow-up appointment
of what to look out for in terms of possible side-effects. They
should also be encouraged to keep the PIL accessible and to
occasionally re-read this. This is particularly important for sta-
ble patients receiving long-term treatment, as this group may
be more likely to forget key information. Finally, the derma-
tologist should repeat advice about photoprotection, empha-
sizing the importance of compliance during the summer
months and while on sunny holidays.
11.2 Toxicity monitoring
This is the responsibility of the dermatologist prescribing
azathioprine. With mutual agreement, responsibility is some-
times shared with the patient’s general practitioner according
to protocols agreed locally.
11.21 Frequency
The BNF suggests that monitoring for azathioprine toxicity
should be performed weekly for the ﬁrst month of azathio-
prine treatment and monthly thereafter.129 The azathioprine
datasheet recommends the more cautious approach of an
initial 8 weeks of weekly monitoring.119 Once the patient is
stable on a ﬁxed dosage, the frequency of monitoring can be
reduced to a minimum of at least once every 3 months.
11.22 Monitoring for hepatotoxicity
An optimal monitoring schedule for liver blood tests remains to
be determined, but it is clear that they should be checked more
frequently during the ﬁrst few months of treatment, as this is
the period during which hepatotoxicity is most likely to occur.
However, as some forms of liver injury may develop after sev-
eral years, regular monitoring for the duration of treatment is
essential. If liver test abnormalities persist despite azathioprine
withdrawal or dose reduction, it is important to bear in mind
alternative potential causes of hepatitis, particularly those related
to immunosuppression such as Epstein–Barr virus infection.
11.23 Monitoring for myelosuppression
Regular checking of FBC is essential during long-term treat-
ment with azathioprine. Macrocytosis is a common ﬁnding
and can be used to assess patient noncompliance. Leucopenia
is the most common haematological adverse event. Other rarer
haematological side-effects include anaemia, thrombocytopenia
and, rarely, pancytopenia. With the exception of macrocytosis,
occurrence of any of these haematological side-effects should
be carefully monitored and the dose of azathioprine adjusted
accordingly.
Recommendations: toxicity monitoring
(Strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
• Regular monitoring of liver blood tests and FBC are required
for the duration of therapy
• Once a patient is stable on a ﬁxed dose of azathioprine moni-
toring should occur at least 3 monthly
• Prior to stabilization, monitoring bloods should be performed
more frequently
12.0 Health economics
12.1 Cost of drug
Azathioprine is relatively inexpensive compared with other
immunosuppressive drugs used by dermatologists such as
ciclosporin and mycophenolate mofetil. The U.K. price for
100 azathioprine 50 mg tablets is currently (BNF 61, 2011)
£7Æ99; thus at 100–200 mg daily, the daily cost of this drug
would be £0Æ32–£0Æ64. In contrast, the U.K. price for a 30-
capsule pack of ciclosporin 100 mg is currently £69Æ11 (BNF
61, 2011); thus, at 300–500 mg daily the daily cost of this
drug would be £6Æ91–£11Æ52. Additionally, the U.K. price for
a 50-tablet pack of mycophenolate mofetil 500 mg is cur-
rently £82Æ26 (BNF 61, 2011); thus, at 1Æ5–3 g daily the daily
cost of this drug would be £4Æ94–£9Æ87. Expressed in relative
terms, the daily cost of ciclosporin or mycophenolate mofetil
in the doses used in dermatology is up to 20 times as great as
the daily cost of azathioprine.129
12.2 Cost of thiopurine methyltransferase
testing
Thirty years after the initial publication by Weinshilboum and
Sladek3 on the genetics of TPMT inheritance, the measurement
of red cell TPMT activity is now a routine test in the U.K.165
(details of biochemistry laboratories offering TPMT measure-
ment are given in Appendix 2 at the end of this guideline).
Due to the high volume of demand, and high throughput in
the laboratories, the cost for this assay is so low that there is
no longer a credible argument to be made against testing on
the basis of cost. Furthermore, the turnaround time (i.e. delay
between ordering the test and receiving the result) is stated to
be 24 h in the U.K. biochemistry department with the highest
throughput of TPMT assays. The current charge for TPMT test-
ing is around £30; this cost may fall with further reﬁnements
to testing methodology [J. Berg (City Hospital, Birmingham,
U.K.), personal communication]. The current cost of TPMT
screening in the U.K. is low compared with other countries,
which is partly explained by economies of scale that have
resulted from widespread uptake of this assay by prescribing
doctors.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
726 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 17 ===
12.3 Thiopurine methyltransferase genotyping
Genotyping as a tool to assess risk of bone marrow toxicity is
not routinely available and is very unlikely to replace func-
tional assessment of TPMT activity. However, in some labora-
tories, genotyping in addition to TPMT assay is already
routinely performed for patients with borderline ⁄absent TPMT
activity in order to clarify toxicity risk. The TPMT enzyme
assay is superior to TPMT genotyping in predicting TPMT
deﬁciency.165,166 To date, 29 different variant TPMT alleles
have been described:165 using expression systems, 16 of these
alleles have been shown to result in deﬁcient TPMT activity.
Of these, three TPMT polymorphisms are responsible for 80–
95% of deﬁcient TPMT activity.165 Thus, genotyping for these
three TPMT polymorphisms could predict deﬁcient TPMT
activity in about 90% of patients; importantly, it would miss
TPMT deﬁciency in about 10% of patients. Thus, genotyping
has emerged as a supportive and complementary test to the
TPMT enzyme assay; when used in this way on selected sam-
ples, phenotyping and genotyping overcome the limitations of
both tests.165,166
12.4 Cost-effectiveness of thiopurine
methyltransferase testing
A recent systematic review of the health economics of azathio-
prine-related TPMT screening identiﬁed seven relevant stud-
ies.167
These
had
many
shortcomings,
but
the
review
concluded that attempts to identify TPMT deﬁciency prior to
prescribing azathioprine had a modest cost that overall was es-
sentially cost neutral. Unfortunately, despite the availability of
the TPMT enzyme assay, new cases of azathioprine-induced
pancytopenia in patients where baseline TPMT status was not
established continue to be reported.168 These cases emphasize
the risk to life and high cost of the intensive supportive care
needed for patients with severe and prolonged myelosuppres-
sion.168 Collectively, these cases appear to make a watertight
case for routine pretreatment TPMT measurement, and as
TPMT testing in the U.K. is becoming an increasingly inex-
pensive test, previous health economic arguments are now of
limited relevance. This is further highlighted by a case of
severe neutropenia (TPMT null) that developed in the non-
screened arm of the Department of Health-funded TARGET
study4 (see section 8.21) which was set up to address the util-
ity of pharmacogenetic testing in the NHS.
13.0 Future directions
13.1 Personal genomic screening
Personal genomic screening is a relatively new type of
genetic testing characterized by multiple statistical compari-
sons to assess for risk of a medical event. Such screening uses
data from genome-wide association studies to predict a per-
son’s disease risk, or for drugs, adverse-event risk, using
multiple genetic markers simultaneously. This is a rapidly
evolving ﬁeld and is likely, in the future, to be relevant to
predicting the risk of adverse events with azathioprine; as
described earlier in this guideline, some of these risks are
dependent on genotype. If personal genomic screening for
risk of adverse events with azathioprine becomes available,
the accuracy and usefulness of such testing would need to be
independently assessed before such testing became widely
adopted.
13.2 Other pharmacogenetic factors
Several studies have linked polymorphisms in inosine triphos-
phate pyrophosphatase (ITPase; Fig. 1), an enzyme involved
in
the
thiopurine
catabolism,
with
adverse
events169,170
including hypersensitivity symptoms65,171 and dropout from
therapy.172 However, other studies have failed to show a
link.173–176 Although the signiﬁcance of ITPase polymor-
phisms as yet remains unclear, it seems possible that there is a
relationship with toxicity; some studies may have been under-
powered or an association may have been obscured, for exam-
ple
by
misclassiﬁcation
of
patients
with
dose-dependent
nausea as drug hypersensitivity. However, as the relevance of
this literature remains uncertain, ITPase status is not currently
measured in clinical practice. Recently, a polymorphism in
aldehyde oxidase, an enzyme which acts on several thiopurine
intermediates, was shown to predict lack of response to aza-
thioprine in a prospective cohort of 192 patients with IBD.177
The reproducibility and clinical relevance of this preliminary
ﬁnding will require additional conﬁrmation.
13.3 Therapeutic drug monitoring
There is currently insufﬁcient evidence in dermatological
patients to support the use of TGN monitoring to guide aza-
thioprine dosing and potentially optimize efﬁcacy. However,
this practice is now being increasingly used in the manage-
ment of IBD in the clinic (see section 8.22), particularly in
the U.S.A.,125 and TGN assay is both inexpensive and available
in the U.K. (see Appendix 2). Monitoring TGNs during azathi-
oprine therapy may have several beneﬁts including: (i) opti-
mization of dose for TPMT heterozygotes; (ii) identifying the
potential to increase dose in clinical nonresponders; and (iii)
identifying nonresponders with TGNs above the threshold
value fairly early during azathioprine therapy to avoid contin-
ued
and
unnecessary
immunosuppressant
exposure.71
Although data for dermatology patients are limited, studies in
IBD have identiﬁed a therapeutic range of 230–260 (lower
limit) and 450 pmol per 8 · 108 RBCs (upper limit), which
may serve as useful therapeutic targets in future dermatolo-
gical practice. Some studies have shown that levels of other
metabolites (see Fig. 1) such as MeMPR (section 9.23) and
methylthioinosine monophosphate (MeTIMP) may also been
linked to toxicity98,99,126 and response (MeTIMP),178 but the
reproducibility of these ﬁndings or applicability to the clinical
setting is yet to be determined.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 727
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 18 ===
13.4 Potential beneﬁts of combined allopurinol
and azathioprine therapy
The therapeutic
indications for allopurinol listed in the
SPC include gout and other hyperuricaemic conditions;119
interestingly, the drug was originally developed to enhance
the therapeutic effects of thiopurine drugs.179 Inhibition of
xanthine
oxidase
and
thereby
reduction
of
azathioprine
catabolism to inactive thiouric acid increases metabolism via
the activation pathway to TGNs (Fig. 1). However, in rou-
tine clinical practice, the combination of azathioprine and
allopurinol is relatively contraindicated and the previous ver-
sion of this guideline advised against concomitant use due
to the risk of TGN-related toxicity. Recently however, allo-
purinol has been successfully combined with thiopurine
drugs in nonresponsive patients with IBD, in whom prefer-
ential metabolism to MeMPR rather than TGN has been
identiﬁed.98 Several studies have demonstrated that allopuri-
nol
(100 mg
daily)
combined
with
thiopurine
drugs
(at 25–50% of the conventional dose) results in increased
TGN levels and an improved therapeutic response, although
the
mechanism
of
this
action
remains
to
be
eluci-
dated.180,181
The
concept
of
combination
azathioprine ⁄allopurinol
therapy has also been extended to patients with thiopurine-
induced hepatotoxicity associated with high MeMPR lev-
els98,182,183 (see section 9.23). These individuals have been
shown preferentially to shunt metabolism away from the for-
mation of TGN to MeMPR,98 an effect which seems to be
reduced by the addition of allopurinol.
There is, however, insufﬁcient experience with these ap-
proaches to recommend routine usage in clinical practice, and
caution is advised if combination therapy is to be used in
dermatology patients. Close monitoring for haematological
toxicity would obviously be needed.
Recommendations
• There is good evidence from nondermatological diseases linking
TGN levels to toxicity and therapeutic response (Strength of recom-
mendation A; level of evidence 1+)
• Measurement of metabolites including TGN should be included
in future research studies of azathioprine, in order to assess
their usefulness in optimizing dosimetry in the clinical setting
(Strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 4)
14.0 Recommended audit points
Clinicians prescribing azathioprine should use audit to evaluate
their care against predeﬁned standards. Possible topics include:
1 Compliance with pretreatment assessment for patients start-
ing azathioprine, including baseline assessment of TPMT
enzyme activity and the provision of written patient infor-
mation.
2 Compliance with monitoring recommendations (at least 3-
monthly when stable but weekly for the ﬁrst 1–2 months
of therapy).
3 Monitoring of the provision of sun-awareness advice to
patients on long-term azathioprine (including patients with
IBD and solid-organ transplants).
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to the following people for their advice
and input in the preparation of the manuscript: Andrew Dam-
sell, patient representative; Dr Martin Prince, Consultant Hepa-
tologist, Manchester Royal Inﬁrmary, Manchester, U.K.; Dr
Guru Aithal, Consultant Hepatologist, University Hospitals
NHS trust, Nottingham, U.K.; Dr Gavin Spickett, Consultant
Immunologist,
Royal
Victoria
Inﬁrmary,
Newcastle
upon
Tyne, U.K.; Dr Jonathan Berg, Clinical Biochemist, City Hospi-
tal, Birmingham, U.K.
References
1 Bell HK, Ormerod AD. Writing a British Association of Dermatol-
ogists clinical guideline: an update on the process and guidance
for authors. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:725–8.
2 The AGREE Collaboration. Appraisal of Guidelines for Research & Evalua-
tion (AGREE) Instrument. 2001. Available at: http://www.agree-
collaboration.org (last accessed 2 August 2011).
3 Weinshilboum RM, Sladek SL. Mercaptopurine pharmacogenetics:
monogenic inheritance of erythrocyte thiopurine methyltransfer-
ase activity. Am J Hum Genet 1980; 32:651–62.
4 Newman WG, Payne K, Tricker K et al. A pragmatic randomised
controlled trial of thiopurine methyltransferase genotyping prior
to azathioprine treatment: the TARGET study. Pharmacogenomics
2011; 12:815–26.
5 Slanar O, Chalupna P, Novotny A et al. Fatal myelotoxicity after
azathioprine treatment. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids 2008;
27:661–5.
6 Boonsrirat U, Angsuthum S, Vannaprasaht S et al. Azathioprine-
induced fatal myelosuppression in systemic lupus erythematosus
patient carrying TPMT*3C polymorphism. Lupus 2008; 17:132–4.
7 Black AJ, McLeod HL, Capell HA et al. Thiopurine methyltransfer-
ase genotype predicts therapy-limiting severe toxicity from aza-
thioprine. Ann Intern Med 1998; 129:716–18.
8 Relling MV, Hancock ML, Rivera GK et al. Mercaptopurine therapy
intolerance and heterozygosity at the thiopurine S-methyltransfer-
ase gene locus. J Natl Cancer Inst 1999; 91:2001–8.
9 Lennard L, Van Loon JA, Weinshilboum RM. Pharmacogenetics of
acute azathioprine toxicity: relationship to thiopurine methyl-
transferase
genetic
polymorphism.
Clin
Pharmacol
Ther
1989;
46:149–54.
10 Lennard L, Lilleyman JS, Van Loon J et al. Genetic variation in
response to 6-mercaptopurine for childhood acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia. Lancet 1990; 336:225–9.
11 Wang L, Weinshilboum R. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase phar-
macogenetics: insights, challenges and future directions. Oncogene
2006; 25:1629–38.
12 Crawford DJ, Maddocks JL, Jones DN et al. Rational design of
novel immunosuppressive drugs: analogues of azathioprine lack-
ing the 6-mercaptopurine substituent retain or have enhanced
immunosuppressive effects. J Med Chem 1996; 39:2690–5.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
728 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 19 ===
13 Swann PF, Waters TR, Moulton DC et al. Role of postreplicative
DNA mismatch repair in the cytotoxic action of thioguanine. Sci-
ence 1996; 273:1109–11.
14 Tiede I, Fritz G, Strand S et al. CD28-dependent Rac1 activation is
the molecular target of azathioprine in primary human CD4+ T
lymphocytes. J Clin Invest 2003; 111:1133–45.
15 Vogt MH, Stet EH, De Abreu RA et al. The importance of methyl-
thio-IMP for methylmercaptopurine ribonucleoside (Me-MPR)
cytotoxicity in Molt F4 human malignant T-lymphoblasts. Biochim
Biophys Acta 1993; 1181:189–94.
16 Martin LK, Werth V, Villanueva E et al. Interventions for pemphi-
gus vulgaris and pemphigus foliaceus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2009; CD006263.
17 Chams-Davatchi C, Esmaili N, Daneshpazhooh M et al. Random-
ized controlled open-label trial of four treatment regimens for
pemphigus vulgaris. J Am Acad Dermatol 2007; 57:622–8.
18 Beissert S, Werfel T, Frieling U et al. A comparison of oral meth-
ylprednisolone plus azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil for
the treatment of pemphigus. Arch Dermatol 2006; 142:1447–54.
19 Pisoni CN, Karim Y, Cuadrado MJ. Mycophenolate mofetil and
systemic lupus erythematosus: an overview. Lupus 2005; 14 (Sup-
pl. 1):s9–11.
20 Callen JP, Spencer LV, Burruss JB et al. Azathioprine. An effective,
corticosteroid-sparing therapy for patients with recalcitrant cuta-
neous lupus erythematosus or with recalcitrant cutaneous leuko-
cytoclastic vasculitis. Arch Dermatol 1991; 127:515–22.
21 Tsokos GC, Caughman SW, Klippel JH. Successful treatment of
generalized discoid skin lesions with azathioprine. Its use in a
patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. Arch Dermatol 1985;
121:1323–5.
22 Ashinoff R, Werth VP, Franks AG Jr. Resistant discoid lupus ery-
thematosus of palms and soles: successful treatment with azathio-
prine. J Am Acad Dermatol 1988; 19:961–5.
23 Iorizzo LJ III, Jorizzo JL. The treatment and prognosis of dermato-
myositis: an updated review. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008; 59:99–112.
24 Choy EH, Hoogendijk JE, Lecky B et al. Immunosuppressant and
immunomodulatory treatment for dermatomyositis and polymyo-
sitis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005; CD003643.
25 Miller J, Walsh Y, Saminaden S et al. Randomized double blind
trial of methotrexate and steroids compared with azathioprine
and steroids in the treatment of idiopathic inﬂammatory myopa-
thy. J Neurol Sci 2002; 199 (Suppl.):S53. (Abstract).
26 Villalba L, Hicks JE, Adams EM et al. Treatment of refractory myo-
sitis: a randomized crossover study of two new cytotoxic regi-
mens. Arthritis Rheum 1998; 41:392–9.
27 Ponyi A, Constantin T, Balogh Z et al. Disease course, frequency
of relapses and survival of 73 patients with juvenile or adult der-
matomyositis. Clin Exp Rheumatol 2005; 23:50–6.
28 Ng YT, Ouvrier RA, Wu T. Drug therapy in juvenile dermato-
myositis: follow-up study. J Child Neurol 1998; 13:109–12.
29 Hofmann SC, Kautz O, Hertl M et al. Results of a survey of Ger-
man dermatologists on the therapeutic approaches to pemphigus
and bullous pemphigoid. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2009; 7:227–33.
30 Kirtschig G, Middleton P, Bennett C et al. Interventions for bullous
pemphigoid. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010; CD002292.
31 Beissert S, Werfel T, Frieling U et al. A comparison of oral meth-
ylprednisolone plus azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil for
the
treatment
of
bullous
pemphigoid.
Arch
Dermatol
2007;
143:1536–42.
32 Bystryn JC. Comparative effectiveness of azathioprine or myco-
phenolate mofetil as an adjuvant for the treatment of bullous
pemphigoid. Arch Dermatol 2008; 144:946.
33 Berth-Jones J, Takwale A, Tan E et al. Azathioprine in severe adult
atopic dermatitis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover
trial. Br J Dermatol 2002; 147:324–30.
34 Meggitt SJ, Gray JC, Reynolds NJ. Azathioprine dosed by thiopu-
rine
methyltransferase
activity
for
moderate-to-severe
atopic
eczema: a double-blind, randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;
367:839–46.
35 Murphy GM, Maurice PD, Norris PG et al. Azathioprine treatment
in chronic actinic dermatitis: a double-blind controlled trial with
monitoring of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Br J Dermatol
1989; 121:639–46.
36 Du Vivier A, Munro DD, Verbov J. Treatment of psoriasis with
azathioprine. Br Med J 1974; 1:49–51.
37 Dalaker M, Bonesronning JH. Long-term maintenance treatment
of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis with inﬂiximab in com-
bination with methotrexate or azathioprine in a retrospective
cohort. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2009; 23:277–82.
38 Yazici H, Pazarli H, Barnes CG et al. A controlled trial of azathio-
prine in Behc¸et’s syndrome. N Engl J Med 1990; 322:281–5.
39 Jayne D, Rasmussen N, Andrassy K et al. A randomized trial of
maintenance therapy for vasculitis associated with antineutrophil
cytoplasmic autoantibodies. N Engl J Med 2003; 349:36–44.
40 Pagnoux C, Mahr A, Hamidou MA et al. Azathioprine or metho-
trexate maintenance for ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Engl J Med
2008; 359:2790–803.
41 Heurkens AH, Westedt ML, Breedveld FC. Prednisone plus azathi-
oprine treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis compli-
cated by vasculitis. Arch Intern Med 1991; 151:2249–54.
42 Zaffanello M, Brugnara M, Franchini M. Therapy for children
with Henoch–Scho¨nlein purpura nephritis: a systematic review.
ScientiﬁcWorldJournal 2007; 7:20–30.
43 Chartapisak W, Opastirakul S, Hodson EM et al. Interventions for
preventing and treating kidney disease in Henoch–Scho¨nlein pur-
pura (HSP). Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2009; CD005128.
44 Chow RK, Ho VC. Treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum. J Am
Acad Dermatol 1996; 34:1047–60.
45 Hunter GA, Forbes IJ. Treatment of pityriasis rubra pilaris with
azathioprine. Br J Dermatol 1972; 87:42–5.
46 Higgs JE, Payne K, Roberts C et al. Are patients with intermediate
TPMT activity at increased risk of myelosuppression when taking
thiopurine medications? Pharmacogenomics 2010; 11:177–88.
47 Gisbert JP, Nino P, Rodrigo L et al. Thiopurine methyltransferase
(TPMT) activity and adverse effects of azathioprine in inﬂamma-
tory bowel disease: long-term follow-up study of 394 patients.
Am J Gastroenterol 2006; 101:2769–76.
48 Lindqvist M, Hindorf U, Almer S et al. No induction of thiopurine
methyltransferase during thiopurine treatment in inﬂammatory
bowel disease. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids 2006; 25:1033–7.
49 Tassaneeyakul W, Srimarthpirom S, Reungjui S et al. Azathioprine-
induced fatal myelosuppression in a renal-transplant recipient who
carried heterozygous TPMT*1 ⁄*3C. Transplantation 2003; 76:265–6.
50 Firooz A, Ghandi N, Hallaji Z et al. Role of thiopurine methyl-
transferase activity in the safety and efﬁcacy of azathioprine in
the
treatment
of
pemphigus
vulgaris.
Arch
Dermatol
2008;
144:1143–7.
51 Ansari A, Hassan C, Duley J et al. Thiopurine methyltransferase
activity and the use of azathioprine in inﬂammatory bowel dis-
ease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2002; 16:1743–50.
52 Corominas H, Domenech M, Laiz A et al. Is thiopurine methyl-
transferase genetic polymorphism a major factor for withdrawal
of azathioprine in rheumatoid arthritis patients? Rheumatology
2003; 42:40–5.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 729
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 20 ===
53 Gearry RB, Barclay ML, Burt MJ et al. Thiopurine S-methyltransfer-
ase (TPMT) genotype does not predict adverse drug reactions to
thiopurine drugs in patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2003; 18:395–400.
54 Schwab M, Schaffeler E, Marx C et al. Azathioprine therapy and
adverse drug reactions in patients with inﬂammatory bowel dis-
ease: impact of thiopurine S-methyltransferase polymorphism.
Pharmacogenetics 2002; 12:429–36.
55 Sayani FA, Prosser C, Bailey RJ et al. Thiopurine methyltransferase
enzyme activity determination before treatment of inﬂammatory
bowel disease with azathioprine: effect on cost and adverse
events. Can J Gastroenterol 2005; 19:147–51.
56 Gisbert JP, Luna M, Mate´ J et al. Choice of azathioprine or 6-mer-
captopurine dose based on thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT)
activity to avoid myelosuppression. A prospective study. Hepatogast-
roenterology 2006; 53:399–404.
57 Colombel JF, Ferrari N, Debuysere H et al. Genotypic analysis of
thiopurine S-methyltransferase in patients with Crohn’s disease
and severe myelosuppression during azathioprine therapy. Gastro-
enterology 2000; 118:1025–30.
58 Lennard L. TPMT in the treatment of Crohn’s disease with azathi-
oprine. Gut 2002; 51:143–6.
59 Murphy LA, Atherton D. A retrospective evaluation of azathio-
prine in severe childhood atopic eczema, using thiopurine meth-
yltransferase
levels
to
exclude
patients
at
high
risk
of
myelosuppression. Br J Dermatol 2002; 147:308–15.
60 Snow JL, Gibson LE. The role of genetic variation in thiopurine
methyltransferase activity and the efﬁcacy and ⁄or side effects of
azathioprine therapy in dermatologic patients. Arch Dermatol 1995;
131:193–7.
61 Meggitt SJ, Reynolds NJ. Azathioprine for atopic dermatitis. Clin
Exp Dermatol 2001; 22:369–75.
62 Bezier M, Reguiai Z, Vitry F et al. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase
genotypic analysis in autoimmune bullous diseases. Eur J Dermatol
2008; 18:512–17.
63 el-Azhary RA, Farmer SA, Drage LA et al. Thioguanine nucleotides
and thiopurine methyltransferase in immunobullous diseases:
optimal levels as adjunctive tools for azathioprine monitoring.
Arch Dermatol 2009; 145:644–52.
64 Cuffari C, Dassopoulos T, Turnbough L et al. Thiopurine methyl-
transferase activity inﬂuences clinical response to azathioprine in
inﬂammatory bowel disease. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2004; 2:410–17.
65 Ansari A, Arenas M, Greenﬁeld SM et al. Prospective evaluation of
the pharmacogenetics of azathioprine in the treatment of inﬂam-
matory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2008; 28:973–83.
66 Achkar JP, Stevens T, Easley K et al. Indicators of clinical response to
treatment with six-mercaptopurine or azathioprine in patients with
inﬂammatory bowel disease. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2004; 10:339–45.
67 Dubinsky MC, Lamothe S, Yang HY et al. Pharmacogenomics and
metabolite measurement for 6-mercaptopurine therapy in inﬂam-
matory bowel disease. Gastroenterology 2000; 118:705–13.
68 Cuffari C, Hunt S, Bayless TM. Enhanced bioavailability of azathi-
oprine compared to 6-mercaptopurine therapy in inﬂammatory
bowel disease: correlation with treatment efﬁcacy. Aliment Pharmacol
Ther 2000; 14:1009–14.
69 Bergan S, Rugstad HE, Bentdal O et al. Monitored high-dose aza-
thioprine treatment reduces acute rejection episodes after renal
transplantation. Transplantation 1998; 66:334–9.
70 Reinshagen M, Schutz E, Armstrong VW et al. 6-Thioguanine
nucleotide-adapted azathioprine therapy does not lead to higher
remission rates than standard therapy in chronic active Crohn dis-
ease: results from a randomized, controlled, open trial. Clin Chem
2007; 53:1306–14.
71 Osterman MT, Kundu R, Lichtenstein GR et al. Association of
6-thioguanine nucleotide levels and inﬂammatory bowel disease
activity: a meta-analysis. Gastroenterology 2006; 130:1047–53.
72 Wusk B, Kullak-Ublick GA, Rammert C et al. Therapeutic drug
monitoring of thiopurine drugs in patients with inﬂammatory
bowel disease or autoimmune hepatitis. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol
2004; 16:1407–13.
73 Hindorf U, Johansson M, Eriksson A et al. Mercaptopurine treat-
ment should be considered in azathioprine intolerant patients
with inﬂammatory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2009;
29:654–61.
74 Parnham AP, Dittmer I, Mathieson PW et al. Acute allergic reac-
tions associated with azathioprine. Lancet 1996; 348:542–3.
75 King JO, Laver MC, Fairley KF et al. Sensitivity to azathioprine.
Med J Aust 1972; 2:939–41.
76 Meggitt SJ. Azathioprine for Atopic Eczema, MD Thesis. Newcastle Uni-
versity, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, 2006.
77 Bir K, Herzenberg AM, Carette S et al. Azathioprine induced acute
interstitial nephritis as the cause of rapidly progressive renal fail-
ure in a patient with Wegener’s granulomatosis. J Rheumatol 2006;
33:185–7.
78 Sloth K, Thomsen AC. Acute renal insufﬁciency during treatment
with azathioprine. Acta Med Scand 1971; 189:145–8.
79 Sinico RA, Sabadini E, Borlandelli S et al. Azathioprine hypersensi-
tivity: report of two cases and review of the literature. J Nephrol
2003; 16:272–6.
80 de Fonclare AL, Khosrotehrani K, Aractingi S et al. Erythema
nodosum-like eruption as a manifestation of azathioprine hyper-
sensitivity in patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease. Arch
Dermatol 2007; 143:744–8.
81 Ananthakrishnan AN, Attila T, Otterson MF et al. Severe pulmo-
nary toxicity after azathioprine ⁄6-mercaptopurine initiation for
the treatment of inﬂammatory bowel disease. J Clin Gastroenterol
2007; 41:682–8.
82 Alexander S, Dowling D. Azathioprine pancreatitis in inﬂamma-
tory bowel disease and successful subsequent treatment with
mercaptopurine. Intern Med J 2005; 35:570–1.
83 Weersma RK, Peters FT, Oostenbrug LE et al. Increased incidence
of azathioprine-induced pancreatitis in Crohn’s disease compared
with other diseases. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2004; 20:843–50.
84 Knowles S, Shear NH. Azathioprine hypersensitivity reactions:
caution upon rechallenge. Muscle Nerve 1997; 20:1467–8.
85 Lees CW, Maan AK, Hansoti B et al. Tolerability and safety of
mercaptopurine in azathioprine-intolerant patients with inﬂam-
matory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2008; 27:220–7.
86 Davis M, Eddleston AL, Williams R. Hypersensitivity and jaundice
due to azathioprine. Postgrad Med J 1980; 56:274–5.
87 Stetter M, Schmidl M, Krapf R. Azathioprine hypersensitivity
mimicking Goodpasture’s
syndrome.
Am J
Kidney
Dis
1994;
23:874–7.
88 Bowen DG, Selby WS. Use of 6-mercaptopurine in patients with
inﬂammatory bowel disease previously intolerant of azathioprine.
Dig Dis Sci 2000; 45:1810–13.
89 Anstey A, Lennard L, Mayou SC et al. Pancytopenia related to aza-
thioprine – an enzyme deﬁciency caused by a common genetic
polymorphism: a review. J R Soc Med 1992; 85:752–6.
90 Winkelstein A. The effects of azathioprine and 6 MP on immun-
ity. J Immunopharmacol 1979; 1:429–54.
91 Gupta G, Lautenbach E, Lewis JD. Incidence and risk factors for
herpes zoster among patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease.
Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2006; 4:1483–90.
92 Ahmed AM, Brantley JS, Madkan V et al. Managing herpes zoster
in immunocompromised patients. Herpes 2007; 14:32–6.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
730 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 21 ===
93 Lawson DH, Lovatt GE, Gurton CS et al. Adverse effects of azathio-
prine. Adverse Drug React Acute Poisoning Rev 1984; 3:161–71.
94 Millar
JW,
Horne
NW.
Tuberculosis
in
immunosuppressed
patients. Lancet 1979; 1:1176–8.
95 Gisbert JP, Gonzalez-Lama Y, Mate J. Thiopurine-induced liver
injury in patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease: a systematic
review. Am J Gastroenterol 2007; 102:1518–27.
96 Bastida G, Nos P, Aguas M et al. Incidence, risk factors and clinical
course of thiopurine-induced liver injury in patients with inﬂam-
matory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2005; 22:775–82.
97 Nygaard U, Toft N, Schmiegelow K. Methylated metabolites of 6-
mercaptopurine are associated with hepatotoxicity. Clin Pharmacol
Ther 2004; 75:274–81.
98 Dubinsky MC, Yang H, Hassard PV et al. 6-MP metabolite proﬁles
provide a biochemical explanation for 6-MP resistance in patients
with inﬂammatory bowel disease. Gastroenterology 2002; 122:904–
15.
99 Shaye OA, Yadegari M, Abreu MT et al. Hepatotoxicity of 6-mer-
captopurine (6-MP) and azathioprine (AZA) in adult IBD patients.
Am J Gastroenterol 2007; 102:2488–94.
100 Taylor AE, Shuster S. Skin cancer after renal transplantation: the
causal role of azathioprine. Acta Derm Venereol 1992; 72:115–19.
101 McLelland J, Rees A, Williams G et al. The incidence of immuno-
suppression-related skin disease in long-term transplant patients.
Transplantation 1988; 46:871–4.
102 Euvrard S, Kanitakis J, Pouteil-Noble C et al. Skin cancers in organ
transplant recipients. Ann Transplant 1997; 2:28–32.
103 Maddox JS, Soltani K. Risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer with aza-
thioprine use. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2008; 14:1425–31.
104 Long MD, Herfarth HH, Pipkin CA et al. Increased risk for non-
melanoma skin cancer in patients with inﬂammatory bowel dis-
ease. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2010; 8:268–74.
105 Brem R, Li F, Karran P. Reactive oxygen species generated by
thiopurine ⁄UVA cause irreparable transcription-blocking DNA
lesions. Nucleic Acids Res 2009; 37:1951–61.
106 O’Donovan P, Perrett CM, Zhang X et al. Azathioprine and UVA
light generate mutagenic oxidative DNA damage. Science 2005;
309:1871–4.
107 Perrett CM, Walker SL, O DP et al. Azathioprine treatment photo-
sensitizes human skin to ultraviolet A radiation. Br J Dermatol
2008; 159:198–204.
108 EBPG Expert Group on Renal Transplantation. European best prac-
tice guidelines for renal transplantation. Section IV. Long-term
management of the transplant recipient. IV.6.2. Cancer risk after
renal transplantation. Skin cancers: prevention and treatment.
Nephrol Dial Transplant 2002; 17 (Suppl. 4):31–6.
109 Ulrich C, Stockﬂeth E. Azathioprine, UV light, and skin cancer in
organ transplant patients – do we have an answer? Nephrol Dial
Transplant 2007; 22:1027–9.
110 Karran P, Attard N. Thiopurines in current medical practice:
molecular mechanisms and contributions to therapy-related can-
cer. Nat Rev Cancer 2008; 8:24–36.
111 Jones JL, Loftus EV Jr. Lymphoma risk in inﬂammatory bowel
disease: is it the disease or its treatment? Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2007;
13:1299–307.
112 Kandiel A, Fraser AG, Korelitz BI et al. Increased risk of lymphoma
among inﬂammatory bowel disease patients treated with azathio-
prine and 6-mercaptopurine. Gut 2005; 54:1121–5.
113 Sondheimer JM. Lymphoma after Imuran and 6-MP: a new look.
J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 2005; 41:683–4.
114 Masunaga Y, Ohno K, Ogawa R et al. Meta-analysis of risk of ma-
lignancy with immunosuppressive drugs in inﬂammatory bowel
disease. Ann Pharmacother 2007; 41:21–8.
115 Beaugerie L, Brousse N, Bouvier AM et al. Lymphoproliferative
disorders in patients receiving thiopurines for inﬂammatory
bowel disease: a prospective observational cohort study. Lancet
2009; 374:1617–25.
116 Vos ACW, Bakkal N, Minnee RC et al. Risk of malignant lymph-
oma in patients with inﬂammatory bowel diseases: a Dutch
nationwide study. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2011; 17:1837–45.
117 Connell WR, Kamm MA, Dickson M et al. Long-term neoplasia
risk after azathioprine treatment in inﬂammatory bowel disease.
Lancet 1994; 343:1249–52.
118 Kempen JH, Daniel E, Dunn JP et al. Overall and cancer related
mortality among patients with ocular inﬂammation treated with
immunosuppressive drugs: retrospective cohort study. BMJ 2009;
339:b2480.
119 Summary of Product Characteristics. Imuran Tablets 50 mg. 2010.
Available at: http://www.medicines.org.uk/emc/medicine/2882/
SPC/Imuran%20Tablets%050mg (last accessed 2 August 2011).
120 Kaskas BA, Louis E, Hindorf U et al. Safe treatment of thiopurine
S-methyltransferase deﬁcient Crohn’s disease patients with azathi-
oprine. Gut 2003; 52:140–2.
121 Derijks LJ, van Helden RB, Hommes DW et al. Dosing azathio-
prine in thiopurine S-methyltransferase deﬁcient inﬂammatory
bowel disease patients. Gut 2008; 57:872.
122 Gardiner SJ, Gearry RB, Begg EJ et al. Thiopurine dose in intermedi-
ate and normal metabolizers of thiopurine methyltransferase may
differ three-fold. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2008; 6:654–60; quiz 04.
123 Korelitz BI, Reddy B, Bratcher J. Desensitization of patients with
allergic reactions to immunosuppressives in the treatment of in-
ﬂammatory bowel disease. Expert Opin Drug Saf 2010; 9:379–82.
124 Fargher EA, Tricker K, Newman W et al. Current use of pharma-
cogenetic testing: a national survey of thiopurine methyltransfer-
ase testing prior to azathioprine prescription. J Clin Pharm Ther
2007; 32:187–95.
125 Yip JS, Woodward M, Abreu MT et al. How are azathioprine and
6-mercaptopurine dosed by gastroenterologists? Results of a sur-
vey of clinical practice. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2008; 14:514–18.
126 Hindorf U, Lindqvist M, Peterson C et al. Pharmacogenetics dur-
ing standardised initiation of thiopurine treatment in inﬂamma-
tory bowel disease. Gut 2006; 55:1423–31.
127 Arenas M, Duley JA, Ansari A et al. Genetic determinants of the pre-
and post-azathioprine therapy thiopurine methyltransferase activity
phenotype. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids 2004; 23:1403–5.
128 Payne K, Newman W, Fargher E et al. TPMT testing in rheumatol-
ogy: any better than routine monitoring? Rheumatology 2007;
46:727–9.
129 Joint Formulary Committee. British National Formulary, 61. London:
British Medical Association and Royal Pharmaceutical Society, 2011.
130 Schusziarra V, Ziekursch V, Schlamp R et al. Pharmacokinetics of
azathioprine under haemodialysis. Int J Clin Pharmacol Biopharm
1976; 14:298–302.
131 European Association for the Study of the Liver. EASL Clinical
Practice Guidelines: management of chronic hepatitis B. J Hepatol
2009; 50:227–42.
132 Colbert C, Chavarria A, Berkelhammer C. Fulminant hepatic fail-
ure in chronic hepatitis B on withdrawal of corticosteroids, aza-
thioprine and inﬂiximab for Crohn’s disease. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis
2007; 13:1453–4.
133 Wursthorn K, Wedemeyer H, Manns MP. Managing HBV in
patients with impaired immunity. Gut 2010; 59:1430–45.
134 Gunji Y, Sakamoto K, Sato S et al. Acutely exaggerated hepatitis B
induced by the withdrawal of immunosuppressants in a serocon-
verted renal transplant recipient: report of a case. Surg Today 2002;
32:472–5.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 731
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 22 ===
135 Bhagani S, Sweny P, Brook G. Guidelines for kidney transplant-
ation in patients with HIV disease. HIV Med 2006; 7:133–9.
136 Roland ME, Adey D, Carlson LL et al. Kidney and liver transplant-
ation in HIV-infected patients: case presentations and review. AIDS
Patient Care STDS 2003; 17:501–7.
137 Department of Health. The Green Book: Immunisation Against Infectious Dis-
ease. Chapter 6: Contraindications and special considerations. 2006.
updated 17 September 2008. Available at: http://www.dh.gov.uk/
prod_consum_dh/groups/dh_digitalassets/@dh/@en/documents
/digitalasset/dh_063623.pdf (last accessed 2 August 2011).
138 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Guide to Vaccine Contra-
indications and Precautions. 2009. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/
vaccines/recs/vac-admin/downloads/contraindications-guide-508
.pdf (last accessed 2 August 2011).
139 Jordan J, Martin-Hirsch P, Arbyn M et al. European guidelines for
clinical management of abnormal cervical cytology, part 2. Cytopa-
thology 2009; 20:5–16.
140 ter Haar-van Eck SA, Rischen-Vos J, Chadha-Ajwani S et al. The
incidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia among women with
renal transplant in relation to cyclosporine. Br J Obstet Gynaecol
1995; 102:58–61.
141 Dejaco C, Mittermaier C, Reinisch W et al. Azathioprine treatment
and male fertility in inﬂammatory bowel disease. Gastroenterology
2001; 121:1048–53.
142 Xu L, Han S, Liu Y et al. The inﬂuence of immunosuppressants on
the fertility of males who undergo renal transplantation and on the
immune function of their offspring. Transpl Immunol 2009; 22:28–31.
143 Gisbert JP. Safety of immunomodulators and biologics for the
treatment of inﬂammatory bowel disease during pregnancy and
breast-feeding. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis 2009; 16:881–95.
144 Patel AA, Swerlick RA, McCall CO. Azathioprine in dermatology: the
past, the present, and the future. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006; 55:369–89.
145 Oefferlbauer-Ernst A, Reinisch W, Miehsler W et al. Healthy offspring
in parents both receiving thiopurines. Gastroenterology 2004; 126:628.
146 Gardiner SJ, Gearry RB, Roberts RL et al. Exposure to thiopurine
drugs through breast milk is low based on metabolite concentra-
tions in mother–infant pairs. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2006; 62:453–6.
147 Christensen LA, Dahlerup JF, Nielsen MJ et al. Azathioprine treat-
ment during lactation. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2008; 28:1209–13.
148 Grossman AB, Noble AJ, Mamula P et al. Increased dosing require-
ments for 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine in inﬂammatory
bowel disease patients six years and younger. Inﬂamm Bowel Dis
2008; 14:750–5.
149 Meier-Kriesche HU, Ojo A, Hanson J et al. Increased immunosup-
pressive vulnerability in elderly renal transplant recipients. Trans-
plantation 2000; 69:885–9.
150 el-Gamel A, Evans C, Keevil B et al. Effect of allopurinol on the
metabolism of azathioprine in heart transplant patients. Transplant
Proc 1998; 30:1127–9.
151 Kennedy DT, Hayney MS, Lake KD. Azathioprine and allopurinol:
the price of an avoidable drug interaction. Ann Pharmacother 1996;
30:951–4.
152 Vazquez SR, Rondina MT, Pendleton RC. Azathioprine-induced
warfarin resistance. Ann Pharmacother 2008; 42:1118–23.
153 Ng HJ, Crowther MA. Azathioprine and inhibition of the anti-
coagulant effect of warfarin: evidence from a case report and a
literature review. Am J Geriatr Pharmacother 2006; 4:75–7.
154 Peyrin-Biroulet L, Cadranel JF, Nousbaum JB et al. Interaction of
ribavirin with azathioprine metabolism potentially induces myelo-
suppression. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2008; 28:984–93.
155 Chaparro M, Trapero-Marugan M, Moreno-Otero R et al. Azathio-
prine plus ribavirin treatment and pancytopenia. Aliment Pharmacol
Ther 2009; 30:962–3.
156 Keshtkar-Jahromi M, Argani H, Rahnavardi M et al. Antibody
response to inﬂuenza immunization in kidney transplant recipi-
ents receiving either azathioprine or mycophenolate: a controlled
trial. Am J Nephrol 2008; 28:654–60.
157 Shah JA, Edwards CM, Probert CS. Should azathioprine and 5-am-
inosalicylates be coprescribed in inﬂammatory bowel disease? An
audit of adverse events and outcome. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol
2008; 20:169–73.
158 Dretchen KL, Morgenroth VH III, Standaert FG et al. Azathioprine:
effects on neuromuscular transmission. Anesthesiology 1976; 45:604–9.
159 Glidden RS, Martyn JA, Tomera JF. Azathioprine fails to alter the
dose–response curve of d-tubocurarine in rats. Anesthesiology 1988;
68:595–8.
160 Xin HW, Fischer C, Schwab M et al. Thiopurine S-methyltransfer-
ase as a target for drug interactions. Eur J Clin Pharmacol 2005;
61:395–8.
161 Lysaa RA, Giverhaug T, Wold HL et al. Inhibition of human thi-
opurine methyltransferase by furosemide, bendroﬂumethiazide
and trichlormethiazide. Eur J Clin Pharmacol 1996; 49:393–6.
162 Oselin K, Anier K. Inhibition of human thiopurine S-methyltrans-
ferase by various nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs in vitro: a
mechanism for possible drug interactions. Drug Metab Dispos 2007;
35:1452–4.
163 Gossmann J, Kachel HG, Schoeppe W et al. Anemia in renal trans-
plant recipients caused by concomitant therapy with azathioprine
and
angiotensin-converting
enzyme
inhibitors.
Transplantation
1993; 56:585–9.
164 Gossmann J, Thurmann P, Bachmann T et al. Mechanism of
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-related anemia in renal
transplant recipients. Kidney Int 1996; 50:973–8.
165 Ford LT, Berg JD. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) assessment
prior to starting thiopurine drug treatment; a pharmacogenomic
test whose time has come. J Clin Pathol 2010; 63:288–95.
166 Winter JW, Gaffney D, Shapiro D et al. Assessment of thiopurine
methyltransferase enzyme activity is superior to genotype in pre-
dicting
myelosuppression
following
azathioprine
therapy
in
patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther
2007; 25:1069–77.
167 Compagni A, Bartoli S, Buehrlen B et al. Avoiding adverse drug
reactions by pharmacogenetic testing: a systematic review of the
economic evidence in the case of TPMT and AZA-induced side
effects. Int J Technol Assess Health Care 2008; 24:294–302.
168 Richard VS, Al-Ismail D, Salamat A. Should we test TPMT enzyme
levels before starting azathioprine? Hematology 2007; 12:359–60.
169 Stocco G, Cheok MH, Crews KR et al. Genetic polymorphism of
inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase is a determinant of mercap-
topurine metabolism and toxicity during treatment for acute
lymphoblastic leukemia. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2009; 85:164–72.
170 Uchiyama K, Nakamura M, Kubota T et al. Thiopurine S-methyl-
transferase and inosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase genes
in Japanese patients with inﬂammatory bowel disease in whom
adverse drug reactions were induced by azathioprine ⁄6-mercap-
topurine treatment. J Gastroenterol 2009; 44:197–203.
171 Marinaki AM, Ansari A, Duley JA et al. Adverse drug reactions to
azathioprine therapy are associated with polymorphism in the
gene encoding inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPase).
Pharmacogenetics 2004; 14:181–7.
172 Von Ahsen N, Oellerich M, Armstrong VW. Characterization of
the inosine triphosphatase (ITPA) gene: haplotype structure, hap-
lotype–phenotype correlation and promoter function. Ther Drug
Monit 2008; 30:16–22.
173 Van Dieren JM, Hansen BE, Kuipers EJ et al. Meta-analysis: inosine
triphosphate pyrophosphatase polymorphisms and thiopurine tox-
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
732 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 23 ===
icity in the treatment of inﬂammatory bowel disease. Aliment Phar-
macol Ther 2007; 26:643–52.
174 Gearry RB, Roberts RL, Barclay ML et al. Lack of association
between the ITPA 94C>A polymorphism and adverse effects from
azathioprine. Pharmacogenetics 2004; 14:779–81.
175 Kurzawski M, Dziewanowski K, Lener A et al. TPMT but not ITPA
gene polymorphism inﬂuences the risk of azathioprine intolerance
in renal transplant recipients. Eur J Clin Pharmacol 2009; 65:533–40.
176 Allorge D, Hamdan R, Broly F et al. ITPA genotyping test does
not improve detection of Crohn’s disease patients at risk of aza-
thioprine ⁄6-mercaptopurine
induced
myelosuppression.
Gut
2005; 54:565.
177 Smith MA, Marinaki AM, Arenas M et al. Novel pharmacogenetic
markers for treatment outcome in azathioprine-treated inﬂamma-
tory bowel disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2009; 30:375–84.
178 Hindorf U, Jahed K, Bergquist A et al. Characterisation and utility of
thiopurine
methyltransferase
and
thiopurine
metabolite
measurements in autoimmune hepatitis. J Hepatol 2010; 52:106–11.
179 Elion GB. The purine path to chemotherapy. Science 1989;
244:41–7.
180 Sparrow MP, Hande SA, Friedman S et al. Effect of allopurinol on
clinical outcomes in inﬂammatory bowel disease nonresponders
to azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2007;
5:209–14.
181 Sparrow MP, Hande SA, Friedman S et al. Allopurinol safely and
effectively optimizes tioguanine metabolites in inﬂammatory
bowel disease patients not responding to azathioprine and mer-
captopurine. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2005; 22:441–6.
182 Ansari A, Patel N, Sanderson J et al. Low-dose azathioprine or
mercaptopurine in combination with allopurinol can bypass
many adverse drug reactions in patients with inﬂammatory bowel
disease. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2010; 31:640–7.
183 Ansari A, Elliott T, Baburajan B et al. Long-term outcome of using
allopurinol co-therapy as a strategy for overcoming thiopurine
hepatotoxicity in treating inﬂammatory bowel disease. Aliment
Pharmacol Ther 2008; 28:734–41.
Appendix 1
Levels of evidence
Level of evidence
Type of evidence
1++
High-quality meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a very low risk of bias
1+
Well-conducted meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a low risk of bias
1)
Meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a high risk of biasa
2++
High-quality systematic reviews of case–control or cohort studies
High-quality case–control or cohort studies with a very low risk of confounding, bias or chance and
a high probability that the relationship is causal
2+
Well-conducted case–control or cohort studies with a low risk of confounding, bias or chance and a
moderate probability that the relationship is causal
2)
Case–control or cohort studies with a high risk of confounding, bias or chance and a signiﬁcant risk that the
relationship is not causala
3
Nonanalytical studies (for example, case reports, case series)
4
Expert opinion, formal consensus
aStudies with a level of evidence ‘)’ should not be used as a basis for making a recommendation. RCT, randomized controlled trial.
Strength of recommendation
Class
Evidence
A
• At least one meta-analysis, systematic review, or RCT rated as 1++, and directly applicable to the target population, or
• A systematic review of RCTs or a body of evidence consisting principally of studies rated as 1+, directly applicable to the
target population and demonstrating overall consistency of results
• Evidence drawn from a NICE technology appraisal
B
• A body of evidence including studies rated as 2++, directly applicable to the target population and demonstrating overall
consistency of results, or
• Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 1++
or 1+
C
• A body of evidence including studies rated as 2+, directly applicable to the target population and demonstrating overall
consistency of results, or
• Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2++
D
• Evidence level 3 or 4, or
• Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2+, or
• Formal consensus
D (GPP)
• A good practice point (GPP) is a recommendation for best practice based on the experience of the guideline development group
RCT, randomized controlled trial; NICE, National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al. 733
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 24 ===
Appendix 2
Laboratories offering thiopurine methyltransferase and
thioguanine nucleotide measurement
Measurement of thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) activity
requires a complex assay for which high sample throughput is
desirable for economic viability. Different centres may use
different
units
so
reference
ranges
corresponding
to
absent ⁄very low, intermediate and normal ⁄high levels should
always be clariﬁed with the reporting laboratory. Although
there are several NHS laboratories providing local TPMT
services,
the
majority
of
TPMT
testing
in
the
U.K.
is
performed by two national services. Both laboratories also
offer thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) measurement:
Purine Research Laboratory
4th Floor, North Wing, St Thomas’ Hospital, Lambeth Palace
Road, London SE1 7EH, U.K.
Clinical Biochemistry
City Hospital, Dudley Road, Birmingham B18 7QH, U.K.
For historical reasons, due to an ongoing trial in leukaemia,
all U.K. patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia are tested
at Shefﬁeld.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article:
Appendix S1. Literature search strategies.
Please note: Wiley-Blackwell are not responsible for the
content or functionality of any supporting materials supplied
by the authors. Any queries (other than missing material)
should be directed to the corresponding author for the article.
 2011 The Authors
BJD  2011 British Association of Dermatologists 2011 165, pp711–734
734 Guidelines for prescribing azathioprine, S.J. Meggitt et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/165/4/711/6644050 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 25 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
