=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists’ guidelines for the
management of contact dermatitis 2017
G.A. Johnston,1 L.S. Exton,2 M.F. Mohd Mustapa,2 J.A. Slack,1 I.H. Coulson,3 J.S.C. English4 and J.F. Bourke5
1Department of Dermatology, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Inﬁrmary Square, Leicester LE1 5WW, U.K.
2British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London W1T 5HQ, U.K.
3Department of Dermatology, Burnley General Hospital, Casterton Avenue, Burnley BB10 2PQ, U.K.
4Circle Nottingham, Lister Road, Nottingham NG7 2FT, U.K.
5Department of Dermatology, South Inﬁrmary Victoria University Hospital, Old Blackrock Road, Cork City, Ireland
Correspondence
Graham A. Johnston.
E-mail: graham.johnston@uhl-tr.nhs.uk
Accepted for publication
19 September 2016
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
G.A.J. has acted as an invited speaker for Crawford Healthcare Ltd (nonspeciﬁc) and as
a co-author of British Occupational Health Research Foundation guidelines on occupa-
tional dermatitis (speciﬁc). I.H.C. has acted as an invited speaker for Stiefel (speciﬁc).
J.S.C.E. has acted as an invited speaker for Stiefel (speciﬁc).
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee
(T&G). Members of the Clinical Standards Unit that have been involved are: P.M.
McHenry (Chairman T&G), K. Gibbon, D.A. Buckley, T.A. Leslie, E.C. Mallon, S.
Wakelin, S. Ungureanu, R.Y.P. Hunasehally, M. Cork, G.A. Johnston, J. Natkunara-
jah, F.S. Worsnop, N. Chiang, J. Donnelly (British National Formulary), C. Saunders
(British Dermatological Nursing Group), A.G. Brain (BAD Scientiﬁc Administrator),
LS Exton (BAD Information Scientist), M.F. Mohd Mustapa (BAD Clinical Standards
Manager).
Produced in 2001 by the British Association of Dermatologists; reviewed and updated,
2009, 2016.
E-mail: guidelines@bad.org.uk
DOI 10.1111/bjd.15239
NICE has accredited the process used by the British Association of
Dermatologists to produce clinical guidelines. The renewed accredi-
tation is valid until 31 May 2021 and applies to guidance pro-
duced using the process described in Updated guidance for writing a
British Association of Dermatologists clinical guidance – the adop-
tion of the GRADE methodology 2016. The original accreditation
term began on 12 May 2010. More information on accreditation
can be viewed at www.nice.org.uk/accreditation.
1.0 Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the management of con-
tact dermatitis. The document aims to (i) offer an appraisal of
all relevant literature up to February 2016, focusing on any
key developments; (ii) address important, practical clinical
questions relating to the primary guideline objective; and (iii)
provide
guideline
recommendations
and
if
appropriate
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in the clinic, in
addition to an updated patient information leaﬂet [available
on the British Association of Dermatologists’ (BAD) website,
http://www.bad.org.uk/for-the-public/patient-information-
leaflets].
1.1 Exclusions
This guideline will not cover contact urticaria, prick testing or
atopy patch testing.
2.0 Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The guideline development group (GDG) consisted of consul-
tant dermatologists, a nurse specialist and patient representa-
tives. The draft document and supporting information was
made available to the BAD membership, British Dermatological
Nursing Group, Primary Care Dermatological Society, British
Society for Cutaneous Allergy, British Society for Skin Care in
Immunocompromised Individuals, Society for Occupational
Medicine and several authorities in occupational health, which
were actively considered by the GDG. Following further
review, the ﬁnalized version was sent for peer review by the
Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD, made up of the Therapy &
Guidelines Subcommittee, prior to submission for publication.
3.0 Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology,1 with reference to the Appraisal of
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
317
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
Guidelines Research and Evaluation (AGREE II) instrument
(www.agreetrust.org),2 and the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).3 Recom-
mendations were developed for implementation in the U.K.’s
National Health Service.
The GDG established several clinical questions pertinent to
the scope of the guideline and a set of outcome measures of
importance to patients, ranked according to the GRADE
methodology (see section 3.1).
A systematic literature search of the PubMed, MEDLINE,
Embase, Cochrane and LILACS databases was conducted to
identify key articles for contact dermatitis up to February
2016; search terms and strategies are detailed in the Support-
ing Information. Additional references relevant to the topic
were also isolated from citations in reviewed literature. Evi-
dence from included studies was graded according to the
GRADE system (high, moderate, low or very-low quality).
Recommendations are based on evidence drawn from system-
atic reviews of the literature pertaining to the clinical ques-
tions identiﬁed; the summary of ﬁndings with forest plots,
GRADE evidence proﬁles indicating the quality of evidence,
tables linking the evidence to the recommendations, Preferred
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses
(PRISMA) ﬂow diagram and list of excluded studies are
detailed in the Supporting Information. The strength of rec-
ommendation is expressed by the wording and symbols
shown in Table 1.
3.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established several clinical questions pertinent to the
scope of the guidelines, in the categories shown in Table 2.
The GDG also established a set of outcome measures of
importance to patients (prevention and treatment), ranked
according to the GRADE methodology,4 data on which are
extracted from included studies: (i) return to/remain in
work (9); (ii) improvement in quality of life (8); (iii)
improved or clearance of dermatitis (8); (iv) treatment tolera-
bility (5); (v) prevention of dermatitis (5); (vi) side-effects of
interventions (4).
The outcome measure used in the diagnosis section was
conﬁrmation of a diagnosis of contact dermatitis.
4.0 Summary of recommendations
The recommendations and ratings shown in Tables 3–5 were
agreed upon unanimously by the core members of the GDG
and patient representatives. For further information on the
wording used for recommendations and strength of recom-
mendation ratings, see section 3.0.
5.0 Background
5.1 Deﬁnition
The words ‘eczema’ and ‘dermatitis’ are used synonymously
to describe a polymorphic pattern of cutaneous inﬂammation
Table 1 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbols
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, e.g. ‘use’,
‘provide’, ‘take’,
‘investigate’, etc.)
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most
patients would choose the intervention, while only a
small proportion would not; for clinicians, most of their
patients would receive the intervention; for policy-
makers, it would be a useful performance indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Consider’
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced;
most patients would choose the intervention, but many
would not; clinicians would need to consider the pros
and cons for the patient in the context of the evidence;
for policy-makers it would be a poor performance
indicator where variability in practice is expected
No recommendation
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation
against the use of an
intervention
‘Do not offer’
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most
patients would not choose the intervention, while only a
small proportion would; for clinicians, most of their
patients would not receive the intervention
Table 2 Clinical questions in patients with contact dermatitis
pertinent to the scope of the guidelines
Diagnosis
Which and how many allergens should be used
in tests?
When should tests be carried out?
Does increasing the number of allergens tested
improve diagnosis?
Prevention
Does education improve or prevent hand dermatitis?
Do barrier creams improve hand dermatitis?
Treatment
Does topical treatment work?
Does systemic treatment work?
Do soap substitutes improve contact dermatitis?
Does education as a treatment work?
Does phototherapy work?
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
318 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
that, in the acute phase, is characterized by erythema and
vesiculation and, in the chronic phase, by dryness, licheniﬁca-
tion and ﬁssuring. Contact dermatitis describes these patterns
of reaction in response to external agents (exogenous); these
agents can act either as irritants, where a cell-mediated
immune response is not involved, or as allergens, where cell-
mediated immunity is involved.
Contact dermatitis may be classiﬁed into the following reac-
tion types. (i) Subjective irritancy: idiosyncratic stinging and
smarting reactions occur within minutes of contact, usually on
the face, in the absence of visible changes. Cosmetic or sun-
screen constituents are common precipitants. (ii) Acute irritant
contact dermatitis: often the result of a single overwhelming
exposure or a few brief exposures to strong irritants or caustic
agents. (iii) Chronic (cumulative) irritant contact dermatitis:
occurs following repetitive exposure to weaker irritants that
may be either ‘wet’, such as detergents, organic solvents,
soaps, weak acids and alkalis, or ‘dry’, such as low-humidity
air, heat, powders, paper, cardboard and dusts. (iv) Allergic
contact dermatitis: this involves sensitization of the immune
system to a speciﬁc allergen or allergens with resulting der-
matitis or exacerbation of pre-existing dermatitis. (v) Photo-
toxic, photoallergic and photoaggravated contact dermatitis:
some allergens are also photoallergens. (vi) Systemic contact
dermatitis (systemic allergic dermatitis): seen after the sys-
temic administration of a chemical, usually a drug, to which
topical sensitization has occurred previously. (vii) Protein con-
tact dermatitis: repetitive handling of proteins, usually foods,
results initially in immediate urticarial symptoms and signs,
but later progresses to a dermatitic reaction. Prick and radioal-
lergosorbent tests to the offending protein allergen are posi-
tive, but patch tests are negative. The proteins may be
vegetables (potato, garlic), meats, ﬁsh (in food handlers),
ﬂour, enzymes (in bakers and pharmaceutical manufacture),
and animal dander and ﬂuids (in veterinarians and abattoir
workers).5
Table 3 Recommendations and ratings agreed upon by the guideline development group and patient representatives
Summary of recommendations
Strength
Diagnosis
Offer patients with suspected contact dermatitis a patch test with a baseline series of allergens
In identifying allergens in patients with contact dermatitis, consider testing for additional series dependent on allergen exposure
Consider additional readings at day 6 or 7 if the results are unexpectedly negative at day 4
Prevention
Consider skin care and skin protection creams in preventing occupational dermatitis
Treatment
Offer alitretinoin to patients with severe chronic hand eczema121
Consider topical tacrolimus to patients with contact dermatitis where topical steroids are unsuitable or ineffective
Consider PUVA therapy for treating patients with chronic hand eczema
Consider patient education in occupational contact dermatitis
PUVA, psoralen plus ultraviolet A.
Table 4 Summary of good-practice recommendations (informal
consensus)
Summary of good-practice recommendations (informal
consensus)
Use clinical assessment tools such as the Dermatology Life Quality
Index and the Hand Eczema Severity Index for both the initial
assessment and the response to treatment of patients with
contact dermatitis
Take a detailed history, including symptoms and if they were
related to application or use of any particular product, a
speciﬁc activity or occupation
If related to the workplace investigate the work practice and
products handled at work, supplemented by examination of
health and safety data sheets
Provide a patient information leaﬂet on patch testing as part of the
counselling process, which includes information on potential
side-effects. Informed patient consent should be obtained
Offer patch testing for patients with chronic or persistent
dermatitis as clinical features alone are unreliable in
distinguishing allergic contact from irritant and endogenous
dermatitis, particularly with hand and facial dermatitis
Consider deferring patch testing for 3 months after ﬁnishing
systemic agents and 6 months after ﬁnishing biological agents,
to minimize the chance of false-negative reactions, if possible
Table 5 Summary of research recommendations
The methodology and reporting of results of future patch test
studies should be standardized
High-quality studies are needed to address the efﬁcacy of
interventions for contact dermatitis, including:
topical tacrolimus vs. topical corticosteroids
combination of tacrolimus and topical corticosteroids
alitretinoin vs. PUVA for hand dermatitis
development and evaluation of skin barrier repair products
development of new wash products that do not damage the
skin barrier
Efﬁcacy of systemic therapies – ciclosporin, azathioprine,
methotrexate – needs to be determined
PUVA, psoralen plus ultraviolet A.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 319
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
In clinical practice, it is not uncommon for atopic/endoge-
nous, irritant and allergic aetiologies to coexist in the develop-
ment of certain eczemas, particularly hand and foot dermatitis.
It is important to look for a history of occupational and recre-
ational factors in both irritant and allergic contact dermatitis.
5.2 Epidemiology
The point prevalence of dermatitis in the U.K. is estimated to
be about 20%. Atopic/endogenous dermatitis makes up the
majority of cases. The point prevalence of hand dermatitis has
been reported to be 2%, with a lifetime risk of developing
hand dermatitis of 20%.6 While irritant contact dermatitis is
more common than allergic contact dermatitis, allergic contact
dermatitis carries a worse prognosis unless the allergen is
identiﬁed and avoided. Contact dermatitis accounts for 4–7%
of dermatological consultations. Dermatitis can persist, particu-
larly in those allergic to chromate, epoxy resin and Compositae
after allergen avoidance.
The prevalence of contact allergy to speciﬁc allergens in the
general population in Europe has been estimated at between
10% and 27%.7,8 Nickel (145%), fragrance (37%), cobalt
(22%), hydroxyisohexyl cyclohexene carboxaldehyde (14%)
and p-phenylenediamine (PPD) (1%) were among the most
commonly identiﬁed allergens.
Chromate allergy is reducing in frequency in the European
Union since the addition of iron to cement was made compul-
sory.9–11 Legislation to reduce the nickel content permitted in
jewellery has reduced the incidence of nickel sensitization.12,13
In contrast, an increase in the permitted level of methylisoth-
iazolinone in cosmetics and personal-care products has led to
a dramatic and unprecedented increase in sensitization since
2010.14
The ongoing UK EPIDERM surveillance scheme records the
epidemiology of occupational skin disease (OSD).15,16 Skin
disease ranks second (29%) to musculoskeletal conditions
(57%) as a cause of occupational disease; dermatitis makes up
79% of OSD. Occupational hand dermatitis in healthcare
workers is declining, owing to workplace interventions. While
there is an overall decrease in sensitization to rubber accelera-
tors, there is increasing sensitization to carbamates and to
rarer rubber allergens.17
The prevalence of contact dermatitis in children is unclear.
A large review reports positive patch-test reaction rates varying
from 27% to 95% of referred children.18 The most common
allergens reported in North American children are nickel, neo-
mycin, cobalt, fragrance and Myroxylon pereirae; many children
had atopic/endogenous dermatitis. Recalcitrant disease unre-
sponsive to standard therapy, or dermatitis in new areas,
should raise the possibility of a super-added allergic contact
dermatitis. Adolescents have a prevalence of contact allergy
almost as high as adults. Population-based studies show 17%
of girls and 13% of 16-year-olds have at least one positive
allergic reaction on patch testing.19 Nickel, fragrance and
4-tert-butylphenol formaldehyde resin are the most common
allergens.
5.3 Assessment and investigation
The pattern and morphology of dermatitis, particularly on the
hands and face, is unreliable in predicting a cause and in dis-
tinguishing atopic/endogenous dermatitis clearly from der-
matitis
which
is
contact
irritant
or
contact
allergic
in
aetiology.20,21 This is also true for children with atopic
dermatitis.22
Therefore, it is essential to consider the following points
initially in the history of all patients with dermatitis: (i) Is
there a personal history of atopic dermatitis in infancy or
childhood? Are there other atopic features, such as asthma and
hay fever? Is there a family history of atopy? (ii) Where did
the initial symptoms begin, and where did they spread to
later? (iii) Were symptoms related to the application or use of
any particular product, especially cosmetics, personal-care
products, topical medication, clothing, bandages or personal
protection such as gloves? (iv) A detailed history of all wash
products which come into contact with the skin is important
because the majority contain harsh emulsiﬁers/surfactants that
can cause signiﬁcant damage to the skin barrier in predisposed
individuals such as those with atopic/endogenous dermatitis
after a short period of exposure. This should detail every wash
product, including shampoos. (v) Were symptoms related to
any particular activity, such as hairdressing, holidays, home
improvements, painting, decorating, recreation or sport? (vi)
Are symptoms related to work or speciﬁc activity within the
workplace? A detailed history should be taken, including
investigation of practice and products handled at work, sup-
plemented by examination of health and safety data sheets.
Also, personal protection practice such as the use of gloves or
goggles should be determined. (vii) Do symptoms improve
when environment changes, for example at weekends and
during holidays, and recur on return to work? (viii) Do symp-
toms get worse after sunlight exposure?
The history should also identify any contact with primary
skin irritants. This should include both wet agents (including
water and the frequency of hand washing) and which prod-
ucts have been used, as well as dry, desiccating products.
Clinical assessment tools should be used for both the initial
assessment and the response to treatment of patients with con-
tact dermatitis. Consider both generic tools such as the Derma-
tology Life Quality Index and more speciﬁc, objective scoring
systems such as the Hand Eczema Severity Index.23,24 Simpli-
ﬁed tools that assess only three variables in hand dermatitis,
such as the Investigators Global Assessment (measuring only
induration, scaling and ﬁssuring) have the advantage of being
quick to perform, but have the disadvantage of being useful
only for certain types of hand dermatitis (chronic hyperkera-
totic) but not others (pompholyx).
Patch testing is the gold-standard investigation in a patient
in whom allergic contact dermatitis is considered. Prospective
studies support the value of specialist contact dermatitis clinics
with access to extended series of allergens for the investigation
of dermatitis in speciﬁc anatomical sites, occupational groups
and chemical exposures. Dermatologists select appropriate
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
320 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
allergens, assess products that patients bring, assess any posi-
tive reactions, and determine their relevance to the individual
and their dermatitis. An important aspect of the process is
clear communication of relevant information to allow the
patient to identify, avoid or substitute the allergen(s). Follow-
up visits reiterate and clarify this information.
5.4 Patch-testing rate
An approximate suggested annual workload for a contact der-
matitis investigation clinic has been estimated at one person
per 700 of the population served, that is, 100 patch tests per
annum for a catchment population of 70 000.25 The more
frequently patch testing is carried out, the lower the rate of
relevant positive reactions becomes.26
5.5 Who should be investigated?
As clinical features alone are unreliable in distinguishing aller-
gic contact from irritant and endogenous dermatitis, particu-
larly with hand and facial dermatitis, patch testing should be
carried out in any patient with a chronic or persistent dermati-
tis,27 or atopic/endogenous dermatitis that was previously
well controlled with topical therapy and then becomes difﬁ-
cult or impossible to control with the same topical treatments.
6.0 Diagnostic tests (diagnosis)
6.1 Preparation of the patient
The patient should be counselled that the skin will be covered
during testing and on the need to avoid exercise, to keep the
back dry and of possible adverse effects. Informed consent
should be taken and documented.
Adverse events associated with patch testing are rare.
Patients should be counselled that a positive result will pro-
duce skin reddening, itching and occasionally blistering at the
application site,28 but that this usually disappears after a few
days.
Patients should be warned that some positive test reactions,
for example to gold, may persist for up to 1 month; that a
positive patch test may be accompanied by a ﬂare of existing
or previous eczema at distant sites; that an increase or decrease
in pigment may be seen at the site of patch tests; and of the
small possibility of infection or scarring at the treatment site.
Active sensitization is also rare. While it was reported as
‘possible’ in two of 7163 patients patch tested to partheno-
lide,29 it was not reported in any of 5371 patients tested to
formaldehyde or textile dyes,30,31 and there is no signiﬁcant
increase in PPD-positive patch-test reactions in individuals
who undergo repeat patch tests compared with those who
only had single patch tests.32
The skin to be tested should be free from dermatitis, and
skin disease elsewhere, as well controlled as possible. This will
help avoid the ‘angry back syndrome’ with numerous false-
positive results.33
If a patient applies potent topical steroids to the back up to
2 days prior to the test being applied,34–36 or is taking oral
corticosteroids,37 there is a signiﬁcant risk of false-negative
results and decreased reactivity.
The effect of systemic corticosteroid treatment on weaker
reactions has not been assessed, but expert consensus is that if
the daily dose is no higher than 10 mg prednisolone,
suppression of positive patch tests is unlikely.38 While positive
patch-test reactions can be elicited in patients taking immuno-
suppressant drugs,39 or who are tanned as a result of sun
bathing or treatment with ultraviolet (UV) radiation,40 any
associated tanning may also suppress patch-test reactions.
However, the amount required to do so and the relevant
interval between exposure and patch testing are poorly quanti-
ﬁed. Where immunosuppressive treatment cannot be stopped
safely, patch testing can yield positive results which, while
possibly suboptimal, may be preferable to not testing at all.41
Antihistamines do not need to be avoided unless testing for
urticaria or contact urticarial reactions.
Patch testing should be deferred for 6 weeks after natural
and artiﬁcial UV exposure, 3 months after ﬁnishing systemic
agents and 6 months after ﬁnishing biological agents, to mini-
mize the chance of false-negative reactions.
There is no evidence that patch testing when breastfeeding
is harmful. While there is no evidence that patch testing in
pregnancy is harmful, no safety data are available. Therefore,
patch testing should be undertaken only when required and
after informed consent is obtained.
6.2 Patch testing
Patch testing involves the reproduction under the patch tests
of an allergic contact dermatitis in an individual sensitized to
a particular antigen(s). The standard method involves the
application of antigen to the skin at standardized concentra-
tions in an appropriate vehicle and under occlusion. The back
is most commonly used, principally for convenience because
of the area available, although the limbs, in particular the
outer upper arms, are also used.
This test has a sensitivity and speciﬁcity of between 70%
and 80%.41
Various application systems are available, of which the most
commonly used are Finn chambers. With this system, the
investigator preloads individual allergens onto test discs,
which, in turn, are mounted on adhesive tape. Care needs to
be taken to load the same amount of allergen onto each disc
as signiﬁcant variation has been reported.42,43 Micropipetting
is the optimal technique to minimize this variation. Many
allergens are volatile or degrade over a short time, particularly
acrylates and fragrances.44,45 Allergen expiration dates should
be noted and allergens should always be stored as directed
and patch tests should be prepared as close to the time of
application of the patch test as practical.46,47 This is essential
for acrylate, fragrance, isocyanate and aqueous allergens.46 It
may be occasionally necessary to test certain allergens beyond
the labelled expiry date when the alternative is not to test.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 321
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
Two preprepared series of patch tests are available – the
TRUE (Pharmacia, Milton Keynes, U.K.) and the Epiquick
(Hermal, Reinbek, Germany) tests. Preprepared tests are sig-
niﬁcantly more reliable than operator-prepared tests,48–52 but
only limited numbers of allergens are available.
There is also some evidence that larger chambers may give
more reproducible tests,53,54 but this may only apply to some
allergens,55 and can be used to obtain a more deﬁnite positive
reaction when a smaller chamber has given a doubtful one
previously.
The International Contact Dermatitis Research Group has
laid down the standardization of gradings, methods and
nomenclature for patch testing.56
6.3 Timing of patch test readings
The optimum timing of patch test readings is on day 2, fol-
lowed by day 4.57 Because some allergens often do not yield
positive reactions until after day 4, a third reading at day 7 will
pick up approximately 10% more positive reactions that were
negative on days 2 and 4.58,59 These include allergens on many
baseline series such as neomycin and tixocortol pivalate.
6.4 Reading and relevance of positive reactions
Patch tests should be read in natural daylight and rated as pos-
itive, negative or irritant (see Table 6). Those that are positive
are graded on a scale of +, ++ or +++.60 A number of factors
may affect this stage. Principal among these are the character-
istics of the individual allergens and the method of patch test-
ing.
Care
should
be
taken
not
to
confuse
the
clinical
appearance of the reaction with interpretation of whether this
reaction represents an irritant or allergic reaction.61
Some allergens are more likely to cause irritant reactions
than others. These reactions may be difﬁcult to interpret and
are misclassiﬁed easily as positive reactions.62 The metal salts
for nickel, cobalt and potassium dichromate, fragrances and
the carba mix often cause irritant reactions and so are the
most frequently misinterpreted allergens in the baseline series.
A face-to-face lecture on assessing the morphology of patch-
test reactions has been shown to improve physicians’ differen-
tiation between irritant and allergic patch-test reactions.63
The positivity ratio of an allergen, deﬁned as the percentage
of + reactions divided by the sum of all positive reactions
(+, ++ and +++) can help assess false-positivity.64 Allergens
with a lower number, such as tixocortol pivalate and the
sesquiterpene lactone mix, are less likely to produce false-
positive reactions.65
As indicated above, preprepared patch tests are better stan-
dardized in terms of the amount of allergens applied and
therefore are more reproducible but offer only a limited num-
ber of allergens and can be prohibitively expensive for large-
scale testing.
An assessment should be made of the relevance of each pos-
itive reaction to the patient’s presenting dermatitis. A simple
and pragmatic way of classifying clinical relevance of positive
allergic patch-test reactions is: (i) current relevance – the
patient has been exposed to allergen during the current epi-
sode of dermatitis and improves when the exposure ceases;
(ii) past relevance – past episode of dermatitis from exposure
to allergen; (iii) relevance not known – not sure if exposure
is current or old; (iv) cross-reaction – the positive test is due
to cross-reaction with another allergen.
6.5 Patch-test series
The usual approach to patch testing is to have a standardized
baseline screening series, which will pick up approximately
80% of allergens.66,67 These series vary from country to coun-
try and should be revised on a regular basis. There are two
principal baseline series, differing between the U.S.A. and Eur-
ope. Experienced dermatologists adapt these series by adding
allergens that may be of importance or relevance locally.
The British Society for Cutaneous Allergy (BSCA) revises its
baseline series regularly, removing allergens such as those that
diminish in relevance and adding important emerging aller-
gens such as methylisothiazolinone.68
Supplemental
series
are
also
recommended;
these
are
important where the baseline series fails to pick up less com-
mon allergens such as fragrances or rubber chemicals.69 These
series are outlined in Appendix 1.
Supplemental series should be used to complement the base-
line series for particular body sites or types of agents to which
the patient is exposed (Appendices 1 and 2). The patient’s
own cosmetics, toiletries and topical medications should be
tested at nonirritant concentrations. This usually means ‘as is’
(undiluted product) for leave-on products but requires dilu-
tions in water for wash-off products. Strong irritants such as
powder detergents should not be patch-tested. Also, occupa-
tional products should be tested at nonirritant concentrations.
The most useful compendium of reported test concentrations
and recommended vehicles for chemicals, groups of chemicals
and products is that produced by De Groot.70
Guidelines for testing materials brought from the workplace
can be found in the Handbook of Occupational Dermatology.71 How-
ever, false-positive and false-negative results often occur when
Table 6 Scoring of patch test reactions according to International
Contact Dermatitis Research Group recommendations60
Symbol
Morphology
Interpretation
–
No reaction
Negative
?
Erythema only, no inﬁltration
Doubtful reaction
+
Erythema, inﬁltration, possibly
discrete papules
Weak positive
reaction
++
Erythema, inﬁltration, papules,
vesicles
Strong positive
reaction
+++
Erythema, inﬁltration, conﬂuent
vesicles
Extreme positive
reaction
ir
Different types of reactions (soap
effect, vesicles, blister, necrosis)
Irritant reaction
nt
Not tested
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
322 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
patch testing products brought by the patient, and should be
interpreted with care.
6.6 Photopatch testing
Where photoallergic contact dermatitis is suspected, pho-
topatch testing may be carried out.72 While the exact intervals
for irradiation and the dose of UVA given vary from centre to
centre,
the
recommended method
of
photopatch
testing
involves the application of a photoallergen series,73 and any
suspected patient materials, in duplicate, on either side of the
upper back. On removal of allergen patches at 2 days,74 one
side is irradiated with 5 J cm2 UVA and readings are taken
in parallel after a further 2 days.75
The incidence of true photoallergy in suspected cases is
low, at < 5%, although additional readings after day 4
increase the detection rate.76
6.7 Open patch testing
The open patch test is used commonly in cases where poten-
tial irritants or sensitizers are being assessed. It is also useful
in the investigation of contact urticaria and protein contact
dermatitis. The open patch test is usually performed by apply-
ing the suspected agent ‘as is’ on the skin of the forearm. The
application site should be assessed regularly for the ﬁrst
30–60 min and a further reading carried out after 3 or 4 days.
A repeated open-application test, applying the suspect agent
on the volar aspect of the forearm, is also useful in the assess-
ment of cosmetics and personal-care products where irritancy
or combination effects may interfere with standard patch test-
ing. Usually, this involves application of the product ‘as is’
twice daily for 5–10 days, stopping if a reaction develops.
6.8 Postinvestigation counselling
Information on the allergen(s), its sources and how to avoid
it should be given, backed up with written or online informa-
tion appropriate to the patient’s level of understanding. It is
important to highlight different names for the same product
to the patient. Even with such provision, only 17% remem-
bered the name of the allergen after 10 years, according to
one study, despite 79% of patients remembering that they
have had a positive patch test result.77
7.0 Intervention and treatment (management/
treatment options)
The cause of contact dermatitis is frequently multifactorial,78
and patients may have irritant and/or atopic/endogenous der-
matitis in addition to allergic contact dermatitis, particularly in
occupations such as hairdressing.79
There are three scenarios when patch testing is completed:
(i) a clear diagnosis is made – including the exclusion of aller-
gic contact dermatitis, and appropriate advice and treatment
given; (ii) a possible diagnosis is made – a trial of avoidance
of allergen is advised with follow-up to conﬁrm/refute the
hypothesis; (iii) a deﬁnite diagnosis cannot be made – further
patch
testing
may
be
required
and
further
information
obtained from the patient/workplace, to determine the mate-
rials/series that need to be tested.
7.1 Occupational contact dermatitis/workplace visit
Where occupational exposure as a contributing factor to the
dermatitis is suspected, a workplace visit can: (i) help determine
which allergens need to be considered; (ii) identify hidden
allergens after a negative patch test; (iii) give clues as to why a
patient has failed to respond to avoidance of an allergen or irri-
tant; (iv) help assess procedures in the work environment and
identify areas of possible accidental exposure/contamination;
(v) help prevent further unnecessary exposure to irritants.
Visits should be organized in conjunction with on-site nurs-
ing/medical/safety personnel as their presence during the visit
is often invaluable. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) should
be requested for all materials to which workers are exposed.
However, these are only required to list those chemicals that
have been assigned a Hazard Statement in accordance with
U.K. regulations. As there are hundreds of chemicals that have
never been so assigned but can cause contact dermatitis, the
risk assessment should consider the work activity, including
all substances hazardous to health, including those used, pro-
duced and created as waste or as by-products.
Therefore, it is important to ensure that the normal work-
ing procedures are active on the day of the visit and that the
particular process in question is being carried out on the day
of the visit, in order to determine accurately what workers are
actually doing in practice rather than in theory. It is important
to record as accurately as possible the details of the visit: per-
sonnel
present,
sections
visited,
processes
observed
and
sources of possible exposure to irritants and allergens.80
7.2 Avoidance
Avoidance of allergens and irritants is the cornerstone of the
management of OSD. Assessment of safety procedures at the
workplace visit is needed to eliminate sources of exposure and
remove the allergen/irritant if a suitable substitute is available.
Personal protective equipment such as clothing or gloves may
be an adequate solution, although less likely to be effective
with potent sensitizers and airborne allergens/irritants. It may
be necessary to move the patient to a different area; changing
occupation is usually the last resort. However, this may be
preferable, particularly if severe contact dermatitis is diagnosed
early in training (e.g. hairdressers).
7.3 Protection
Protection of the skin against contact with an allergen most
commonly involves the use of gloves in hand dermatitis. The
nature of the allergen or irritants involved will determine
which type of gloves should be used (Appendix 3), and it is
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 323
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
important to check the MSDS to determine the permeation
time for the glove being used. Latex gloves are penetrated by
methyl
methacrylate
in
1 min.
Nitrile
(5 min),
butyl
(15 min) and three-layer PVP gloves (20 min; polyethylene
outer and inner layer, ethylene vinyl copolymer middle layer)
give better protection, but none is completely impermeable.81
It is also important to protect the hands outside the work-
ing environment. Rubber or polyvinylchloride gloves with a
cotton lining are recommended for general household tasks.
There is some evidence that prolonged glove use impairs stra-
tum corneum barrier function;82 however, the clinical rele-
vance of this is unclear.83–85 Barrier creams have shown
promise in vitro,86 and in volunteers in the prevention of occu-
pational hand dermatitis,87 but their efﬁcacy in the workplace
is less certain. Workers who use barrier creams have better
skin-quality scores and reduced transepidermal water loss than
those who do not,88,89 but this may not translate into a signif-
icant clinical difference.90
7.4 Substitution
Replacement of soaps and detergents with emollients is useful,
even if they are not the cause of the dermatitis, as they are irri-
tants which will compound the situation.91,92 It is also often
possible to substitute different materials both in the workplace
and outside so that the implicated allergen or irritant can be
avoided. Typical examples include the use of thiuram-free
gloves, changing biocides in industrial coolant oils and the use
of isothiazolinone-free creams/cleansers in those patients in
whom contact allergy has been identiﬁed to these allergens.
7.5 Education
Studies in occupational settings have demonstrated improve-
ments in established hand dermatitis after comprehensive
intervention education programmes.93–96 The prevention of
hand dermatitis with similar programmes has also been
reported.93,97 Compliance with skin-protection programmes is
often poor.98 Owing to the very low-quality studies identiﬁed
and marginal beneﬁts observed (see Supplementary Informa-
tion), neither education on an individualized basis nor a for-
mal
course
could
be
recommended
over
the
other
in
preventing hand dermatitis.
7.6 Treatment of persistent contact dermatitis
Therapy for contact dermatitis persisting despite allergen/irri-
tant removal and skin protection largely follows the manage-
ment of atopic/endogenous dermatitis. Studies support the
efﬁcacy of topical steroids and topical tacrolimus in the treat-
ment
of
contact
dermatitis.99–104
Second-line
treatment
includes phototherapy and systemic immunomodulators such
as methotrexate and mycophenolate mofetil. Psoralen plus
UVA, ciclosporin and alitretinoin have been demonstrated to
be useful in chronic hand dermatitis,105–107 and azathioprine
in chronic actinic dermatitis,108 but none has been assessed
speciﬁcally in the treatment of contact dermatitis (see Supple-
mentary Information).
7.7 Diets
There are no good-quality studies to support exclusion diets
in the management of contact dermatitis.109,110
8.0 Prognosis (follow-up)
In a Swedish study, only 25% of 555 patients diagnosed with
occupational contact dermatitis had completely healed over a
10-year period; 50% still had intermittent symptoms and 25%
had permanent symptoms. In 40% who changed their occupa-
tion, the overall prognosis was not improved.111 In an Aus-
tralian study, 55% of 949 patients still had dermatitis after
2 years from diagnosis. The prognosis for milder cases of con-
tact dermatitis depends upon the ease of avoidance.112 The
long-term prognosis for occupational contact dermatitis is
often very poor.113
8.1 Why is the prognosis sometimes so poor?
Continuation of the exposure – knowingly or unknowingly –
can occur. Allergens such as chromium, epoxy resin and
Compositae appear to trigger chronic dermatitis, even after
avoidance.114,115 Risk factors for a poor prognosis include the
severity and extent of dermatitis at presentation.116
8.2 Do educational interventions help?
Educational programmes may help in secondary prevention and
outcomes for chronic occupational contact dermatitis.94,96,117
8.3 Should a job change be recommended?
If a worker can completely change their job, that is, elimi-
nate
their
exposure
if
suffering
from
allergic
contact
dermatitis or exposure reduction in the case of irritant con-
tact dermatitis, they have a better chance of the dermatitis
clearing.113,116
9.0 Practical and economic considerations
The management of contact dermatitis includes diagnosis,
treatment and prevention. There are few studies that look at
economic considerations.
9.1 What is the economic burden of suffering from
contact dermatitis?
The annual societal cost of patients suffering from occupa-
tional contact dermatitis is high and comparable with patients
with severe atopic/endogenous dermatitis or psoriasis.118
The costs of suffering from contact dermatitis have been
reported
as
amounting
to
approximately
€2300
for
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
324 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
occupational contact dermatitis and €1000 for nonoccupa-
tional contact dermatitis per patient per annum.119 As contact
dermatitis is so common, this represents a substantial eco-
nomic burden.
9.2 Is it worthwhile managing patients with contact
dermatitis in a multidisciplinary clinic?
Integrated care programmes with a multidisciplinary team,
including a dermatologist specializing in patch testing, a spe-
cialized nurse and an occupational physician, have been pro-
posed for patients with moderate-to-severe hand dermatitis
felt to be work related, and the majority of whom would have
at least an element of contact dermatitis. These have been
found to be effective in improving outcomes in the short term
compared with standard care (patch testing and management
by a dermatologist).120 However, this difference disappears
after 12 months. Integrated care programmes cost substantially
more than standard care (€3613 vs. €1576 per patient).
10.0 Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive patients diagnosed with contact der-
matitis, is there evidence of: (i) the provision of a patient
information leaﬂet on patch testing, which includes informa-
tion on potential side-effects; (ii) informed consent; (iii)
application of the appropriate national or international base-
line series; (iv) application of all allergens at the correct con-
centration and in the correct vehicle; (v) prescription of
further allergens during the tests to clarify doubtful reactions,
if applicable; (vi) accurate interpretation of the patch-test reac-
tions as either allergic or irritant, and documentation of rele-
vance; (vii) recording of any adverse outcomes of patch
testing and actions taken, if applicable; (viii) a discharge letter
with a clinical diagnosis and allergen-speciﬁc information,
where applicable; (ix) collation of local patch-test results into
a database; (x) benchmarking of local patch test results against
national collated ﬁgures?
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient, and
allow
benchmarking
between
different
units.
However,
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months.
11.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results of
future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review to English-
language references was a pragmatic decision, but the authors
recognize this may exclude some important information pub-
lished in other languages.
12.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2022; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to patient representatives Wayne Green-
halgh and Frank Zagorski, and the British Society for Cutaneous
Allergy committee for their invaluable input, as well as all those
who commented on the draft during the consultation period.
References
1 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Update on writing a
British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline: the adop-
tion of the GRADE methodology. Br J Dermatol 2017; 176:44–51.
2 Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
3 GRADE.
GRADE
Working
Group.
Available
at:
http://
www.gradeworkinggroup.org/ (last accessed 16 March 2016).
4 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging con-
sensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommen-
dations. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
5 Barbaud A, Poreaux C, Penven E et al. Occupational protein con-
tact dermatitis. Eur J Dermatol 2015; 25:527–34.
6 Lindberg M, Edman B, Fischer T et al. Time trends in Swedish
patch test data from 1992 to 2000. A multi-centre study based
on age- and sex-adjusted results of the Swedish standard series.
Contact Dermatitis 2007; 56:205–10.
7 Thyssen JP, Linneberg A, Menne T et al. Contact allergy to aller-
gens of the TRUE-test (panels 1 and 2) has decreased modestly
in the general population. Br J Dermatol 2009; 161:1124–9.
8 Diepgen TL, Ofenloch RF, Bruze M et al. Prevalence of contact
allergy in the general population in different European regions.
Br J Dermatol 2016; 174:319–29.
9 Stocks SJ, McNamee R, Turner S et al. Has European Union legis-
lation to reduce exposure to chromate in cement been effective
in reducing the incidence of allergic contact dermatitis attributed
to chromate in the UK? Occup Environ Med 2012; 69:150–2.
10 Johansen J, Menne T, Christophersen J et al. Changes in the pat-
tern of sensitization to common contact allergens in Denmark
between 1985–86 and 1997–98, with a special view to the effect
of preventive strategies. Br J Dermatol 2000; 142:490–5.
11 Roto P, Sainio H, Reunala T et al. Addition of ferrous sulfate to
cement and risk of chromium dermatitis among construction
workers. Contact Dermatitis 1996; 34:43–50.
12 TEG. The European Directive restricting the use of Nickel. Avail-
able
at:
http://www.teg.co.uk/nickel/94-27-EC.htm
(last
accessed 14 April 2016).
13 TEG. The European Directive update restricting the use of Nickel.
Available at: http://www.teg.co.uk/nickel/2004-96-EC.htm (last
accessed 14 April 2016).
14 Johnston GA. The rise in prevalence of contact allergy to
methylisothiazolinone in the British Isles. Contact Dermatitis 2014;
70:238–40.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 325
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
15 Meyer JD, Chen Y, Holt DL et al. Occupational contact dermatitis
in the UK: a surveillance report from EPIDERM and OPRA. Occup
Med (Lond) 2000; 50:265–73.
16 Turner S, McNamee R, Agius R et al. Evaluating interventions
aimed at reducing occupational exposure to latex and rubber
glove allergens. Occup Environ Med 2012; 69:925–31.
17 Warburton KL, Urwin R, Carder M et al. UK rates of occupational
skin disease attributed to rubber accelerators, 1996–2012. Contact
Dermatitis 2015; 72:305–11.
18 Admani S, Jacob SE. Allergic contact dermatitis in children:
review of the past decade. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep 2014; 14:421.
19 Lagrelius M, Wahlgren CF, Matura M et al. High prevalence of
contact allergy in adolescence: results from the population-based
BAMSE birth cohort. Contact Dermatitis 2016; 74:44–51.
20 Cronin E. Clinical prediction of patch test results. Trans St. Johns
Hosp Dermatol Soc 1972; 58:153–62.
21 Podmore P, Burrows D, Bingham EA. Prediction of patch test
results. Contact Dermatitis 1984; 11:283–4.
22 Clayton TH, Wilkinson SM, Rawcliffe C et al. Allergic contact der-
matitis in children: should pattern of dermatitis determine refer-
ral? A retrospective study of 500 children tested between 1995
and 2004 in one U.K. centre. Br J Dermatol 2006; 154:114–17.
23 Agner T, Jungersted JM, Coenraads PJ et al. Comparison of four
methods for assessment of severity of hand eczema. Contact Der-
matitis 2013; 69:107–11.
24 van der Valk PG, van Gils RF, Boot CR et al. A simple tool with
which to study the course of chronic hand eczema in clinical
practice: a reduced-item score. Contact Dermatitis 2013; 69:112–17.
25 Bhushan M, Beck MH. An audit to identify the optimum referral
rate to a contact dermatitis investigation unit. Br J Dermatol 1999;
141:570–2.
26 Statham B, Mughal A, Bodger O. The relationship between the pro-
portion of the population tested annually and the rate of patients
with positive patch test reactions. Contact Dermatitis 2011; 64:54–7.
27 Goulden V, Wilkinson SM. Evaluation of a contact allergy clinic.
Clin Exp Dermatol 2000; 25:67–70.
28 Spornraft-Ragaller P, Schnuch A, Uter W. Extreme patch test reac-
tivity to p-phenylenediamine but not to other allergens in chil-
dren. Contact Dermatitis 2011; 65:220–6.
29 Paulsen E, Andersen KE. Screening for Compositae sensitization with
pure allergens: implications of molecular structure, strength of
reaction, and time of testing. Contact Dermatitis 2011; 64:96–103.
30 Ponten A, Goossens A, Bruze M. Recommendation to include
formaldehyde 2.0% aqua in the European baseline patch test ser-
ies. Contact Dermatitis 2013; 69:372–4.
31 Ryberg K, Goossens A, Isaksson M et al. Patch testing with a tex-
tile dye mix and its constituents in a baseline series. Dermatitis
2010; 21:49–56.
32 Dawe SA, White IR, Rycroft RJ et al. Active sensitization to para-
phenylenediamine and its relevance: a 10-year review. Contact Der-
matitis 2004; 51:96–7.
33 Bruynzeel DP, Maibach HI. Excited skin syndrome (angry back).
Arch Dermatol 1986; 122:323–8.
34 Sukanto H, Nater JP, Bleumink E. Inﬂuence of topically applied
corticosteroids on patch test reactions. Contact Dermatitis 1981;
7:180–5.
35 Clark RA, Rietschel RL. 0.1% triamcinolone acetonide ointment
and patch test responses. Arch Dermatol 1982; 118:163–5.
36 Green C. The effect of topically applied corticosteroid on irritant
and allergic patch test reactions. Contact Dermatitis 1996; 35:331–3.
37 Anveden I, Lindberg M, Andersen KE et al. Oral prednisone sup-
presses allergic but not irritant patch test reactions in individuals
hypersensitive to nickel. Contact Dermatitis 2004; 50:298–303.
38 Fowler JF Jr, Maibach HI, Zirwas M et al. Effects of immunomod-
ulatory agents on patch testing: expert opinion 2012. Dermatitis
2012; 23:301–3.
39 Wee JS, White JM, McFadden JP et al. Patch testing in patients
treated with systemic immunosuppression and cytokine inhibi-
tors. Contact Dermatitis 2010; 62:165–9.
40 Sjovall P, Christensen OB. Local and systemic effect of ultraviolet
irradiation (UVB and UVA) on human allergic contact dermatitis.
Acta Dermatovenereol 1986; 66:290–4.
41 Nethercott JR, Holness DL. The positive predictive value of patch
tests in the evaluation of patients with suspected contact dermati-
tis. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am 1989; 9:549–54.
42 Frick-Engfeldt M, Gruvberger B, Isaksson M et al. Comparison of
three different techniques for application of water solutions to
Finn Chambers(R). Contact Dermatitis 2010; 63:284–8.
43 Hamann D, Hamann CR, Hamann C. A contemporary ﬁscher-
maibach investigation: variations in patch test delivery systems
and implications for standardization. Dermatitis 2013; 24:302–12.
44 Mose KF, Andersen KE, Christensen LP. Stability of selected vola-
tile contact allergens in different patch test chambers under dif-
ferent storage conditions. Contact Dermatitis 2012; 66:172–9.
45 Siegel PD, Fowler JF, Law BF et al. Concentrations and stability of
methyl methacrylate, glutaraldehyde, formaldehyde and nickel
sulfate in commercial patch test allergen preparations. Contact Der-
matitis 2014; 70:309–15.
46 Joy NM, Rice KR, Atwater AR. Stability of patch test allergens.
Dermatitis 2013; 24:227–36.
47 McDonald BS, Buckley DA. Patch testing practice in the U.K. Br J
Dermatol 2013; 169:45.
48 Lachapelle JM, Bruynzeel DP, Ducombs G et al. European multi-
center study of the TRUE Test. Contact Dermatitis 1988; 19:91–7.
49 Fischer T, Maibach HI. Easier patch testing with TRUE Test. J Am
Acad Dermatol 1989; 20:447–53.
50 TRUE Test Study Group. Comparative multicenter studies with
TRUE Test and Finn Chambers in eight Swedish hospitals. J Am
Acad Dermatol 1989; 21:846–9.
51 Wilkinson JD, Bruynzeel DP, Ducombs G et al. European multi-
center study of TRUE Test, Panel 2. Contact Dermatitis 1990;
22:218–25.
52 Lachapelle JM, Antoine JL. Problems raised by the simultaneous
reproducibility of positive allergic patch test reactions in man. J
Am Acad Dermatol 1989; 21:850–4.
53 Brasch J, Szliska C, Grabbe J. More positive patch test reactions
with larger test chambers? Results from a study group of the Ger-
man Contact Dermatitis Research Group (DKG). Contact Dermatitis
1997; 37:118–20.
54 Doumit J, Pratt M. Comparative study of IQ-ultra and Finn
Chambers test methodologies in detecting 10 common standard
allergens that cause allergic contact dermatitis. J Cutan Med Surg
2012; 16:18–22.
55 Gefeller O, Pfahlberg A, Geier J et al. The association between size
of test chamber and patch test reaction: a statistical reanalysis.
Contact Dermatitis 1999; 40:14–18.
56 Wilkinson DS, Fregert S, Magnusson B et al. Terminology of con-
tact dermatitis. Acta Dermatovenereol 1970; 50:287–92.
57 Shehade SA, Beck MH, Hillier VF. Epidemiological survey of stan-
dard series patch test results and observations on day 2 and day 4
readings. Contact Dermatitis 1991; 24:119–22.
58 Torp Madsen J, Andersen KE. Outcome of a second patch test
reading of TRUE Tests(R) on D6/7. Contact Dermatitis 2013;
68:94–7.
59 Jonker MJ, Bruynzeel DP. The outcome of an additional patch-test
reading on days 6 or 7. Contact Dermatitis 2000; 42:330–5.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
326 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
60 Fregert S. Manual of Contact Dermatitis on Behalf of the International Contact
Dermatitis Research Group and the North American Contact Dermatitis Group,
2nd edn. Copenhagen: Munksgaard Publishers, 1981.
61 Johnston GA. Standardization of patch tests and the doctors who
read them. Br J Dermatol 2009; 161:493–5.
62 Uter W, Frosch PJ, Becker D et al. Are we biased when reading a
doubtful patch test reaction to a ‘clear-cut’ allergen such as the
thiuram mix? Contact Dermatitis 2009; 60:234–5.
63 Svedman C, Isaksson M, Bjork J et al. ‘Calibration’ of our patch
test
reading
technique
is
necessary.
Contact
Dermatitis
2012;
66:180–7.
64 Geier J, Uter W, Lessmann H et al. The positivity ratio – another
parameter to assess the diagnostic quality of a patch test prepara-
tion. Contact Dermatitis 2003; 48:280–2.
65 Warshaw EM, Nelsen DD, Sasseville D et al. Positivity ratio and
reaction index: patch-test quality-control metrics applied to the
North American Contact Dermatitis group database. Dermatitis
2010; 21:91–7.
66 Sherertz EF, Swartz SM. Is the screening patch test tray still worth
using? J Am Acad Dermatol 1993; 29:1057–8.
67 Menne T, Dooms-Goossens A, Wahlberg JE et al. How large a
proportion of contact sensitivities are diagnosed with the Euro-
pean standard series? Contact Dermatitis 1992; 26:201–2.
68 Bruze M, Engfeldt M, Goncalo M et al. Recommendation to
include methylisothiazolinone in the European baseline patch test
series – on behalf of the European Society of Contact Dermatitis
and the European Environmental and Contact Dermatitis Research
Group. Contact Dermatitis 2013; 69:26–370.
69 Mann J, McFadden JP, White JM et al. Baseline series fragrance
markers fail to predict contact allergy. Contact Dermatitis 2014;
70:276–81.
70 de Groot AC. Patch Testing. Test Concentrations and Vehicles for 3700
Chemicals, 2nd edn. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1994.
71 Jolanki R, Estlander T, Alanko K et al. Patch testing with a
patient’s own materials handled at work. In: Handbook of Occupational
Dermatology (Kanerva L, Elsner P, Maibach MD, Howard I, eds),
Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 2000, 375–83.
72 British Photodermatology Group. Photopatch testing – methods
and indications. Br J Dermatol 1997; 136:371–6.
73 Goncalo M, Ferguson J, Bonevalle A et al. Photopatch testing: rec-
ommendations for a European photopatch test baseline series.
Contact Dermatitis 2013; 68:239–43.
74 Batchelor RJ, Wilkinson SM. Photopatch testing – a retrospective
review using the 1 day and 2 day irradiation protocols. Contact
Dermatitis 2006; 54:75–8.
75 European Multicentre Photopatch Test Study Taskforce. A Euro-
pean multicentre photopatch test study. Br J Dermtol 2012;
166:1002–9.
76 Bryden AM, Moseley H, Ibbotson SH et al. Photopatch testing of
1155 patients: results of the U.K. multicentre photopatch study
group. Br J Dermtol 2006; 155:737–47.
77 Jamil WN, Erikssohn I, Lindberg M. How well is the outcome of
patch testing remembered by the patients? A 10-year follow-up of
testing with the Swedish baseline series at the Department of Der-
matology in Orebro, Sweden. Contact Dermatitis 2012; 66:215–20.
78 Agner T, Aalto-Korte K, Andersen KE et al. Classiﬁcation of hand
eczema. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015; 29:2417–22.
79 Lyons G, Roberts H, Palmer A et al. Hairdressers presenting to an
occupational dermatology clinic in Melbourne, Australia. Contact
Dermatitis 2013; 68:300–6.
80 English JSC. Occupational dermatoses. In: Rook’s Textbook in Derma-
tology (Burns DA, Breathnach SM, Grifﬁths C, Cox NH, eds), 7th
edn. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2004; 21.8–9.
81 Darre E, Vedel P, Jensen JS. Skin protection against methyl-
methacrylate. Acta Orthop Scand 1987; 58:236–8.
82 Ramsing DW, Agner T. Effect of glove occlusion on human skin
(II). Long-term experimental exposure. Contact Dermatitis 1996;
34:258–62.
83 Boyle DK, Forsyth A, Bagg J et al. An investigation of the effect of
prolonged glove wearing on the hand skin health of dental
healthcare workers. J Dentistry 2002; 30:233–41.
84 Wetzky U, Bock M, Wulfhorst B et al. Short- and long-term
effects of single and repetitive glove occlusion on the epidermal
barrier. Arch Dermatol Res 2009; 301:595–602.
85 Weistenh€ofer W, Wacker M, Bernet F et al. Occlusive gloves and skin
conditions: is there a problem? Results of a cross-sectional study in a
semiconductor company. Br J Dermatol 2015; 172:1058–65.
86 Schliemann S, Petri M, Elsner P. Preventing irritant contact der-
matitis with protective creams: inﬂuence of the application dose.
Contact Dermatitis 2014; 70:19–26.
87 Williams C, Wilkinson SM, McShane P et al. A double-blind, ran-
domized study to assess the effectiveness of different moisturizers
in preventing dermatitis induced by hand washing to simulate
healthcare use. Br J Dermatol 2010; 162:1088–92.
88 K€utting B, Baumeister T, Weistenh€ofer W et al. Effectiveness of
skin protection measures in prevention of occupational hand
eczema: results of a prospective randomized controlled trial over
a follow-up period of 1 year. Br J Dermtol 2010; 162:362–70.
89 Winker R, Salameh B, Stolkovich S et al. Effectiveness of skin pro-
tection creams in the prevention of occupational dermatitis:
results of a randomized, controlled trial. Int Arch Occup Environ
Health 2009; 82:653–62.
90 Bauer A, Schmitt J, Bennett C et al. Interventions for preventing
occupational irritant hand dermatitis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2010; (6):CD004414.
91 Lauharanta J, Ojaj€arvi J, Sarna S et al. Prevention of dryness and
eczema of the hands of hospital staff by emulsion cleansing
instead of washing with soap. J Hosp Infect 1991; 17:207–15.
92 Halkier-Sørensen L, Thestrup-Pedersen K. The efﬁcacy of a mois-
turizer (Locobase) among cleaners and kitchen assistants during
everyday exposure to water and detergents. Contact Dermatitis 1993;
29:266–71.
93 van Gils RF, Boot CR, van Gils PF et al. Effectiveness of prevention
programmes for hand dermatitis: a systematic review of the liter-
ature. Contact Dermatitis 2011; 64:63–72.
94 van Gils RF, Boot CR, Knol DL et al. The effectiveness of inte-
grated care for patients with hand eczema: results of a random-
ized, controlled trial. Contact Dermatitis 2012; 66:197–204.
95 Wilke A, Gediga G, Schlesinger T et al. Sustainability of interdisci-
plinary secondary prevention in patients with occupational hand
eczema: a
5-year follow-up survey.
Contact Dermatitis 2012;
67:208–16.
96 Ibler KS, Jemec GB, Diepgen TL et al. Skin care education and
individual counselling versus treatment as usual in healthcare
workers with hand eczema: randomised clinical trial. BMJ 2012;
345:e7822.
97 Bregnhoj A, Menne T, Johansen JD et al. Prevention of hand
eczema among Danish hairdressing apprentices: an intervention
study. Occup Environ Med 2012; 69:310–16.
98 K€utting B, Weistenh€ofer W, Baumeister T et al. Current accep-
tance and implementation of preventive strategies for occupa-
tional hand eczema in 1355 metalworkers in Germany. Br J
Dermtol 2009; 161:390–6.
99 Hachem JP, De Paepe K, Vanpee E et al. Efﬁcacy of topical corti-
costeroids in nickel-induced contact allergy. Clin Exp Dermatol
2002; 27:47–50.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 327
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
100 Hachem JP, De Paepe K, Vanpee E et al. Combination therapy
improves the recovery of the skin barrier function: an experi-
mental model using a contact allergy patch test combined with
TEWL measurements. Dermatology 2001; 202:314–19.
101 Parneix-Spake A, Goustas P, Green R. Eumovate (clobetasone
butyrate) 0.05% cream with its moisturizing emollient base has
better healing properties than hydrocortisone 1% cream: a study
in
nickel-induced
contact
dermatitis.
J
Dermatol
Treat
2001;
12:191–7.
102 Queille-Roussel C, Duteil L, Padilla JM et al. Objective assessment
of topical anti-inﬂammatory drug activity on experimentally
induced nickel contact dermatitis: comparison between visual
scoring, colorimetry, laser Doppler velocimetry and transepider-
mal water loss. Skin Pharmacol 1990; 3:248–55.
103 Vernon HJ, Olsen EA. A controlled trial of clobetasol propionate
ointment 0.05% in the treatment of experimentally induced Rhus
dermatitis. J Am Acad Dermatol 1990; 23:829–32.
104 Belsito D, Wilson DC, Warshaw E et al. A prospective randomized
clinical trial of 0.1% tacrolimus ointment in a model of chronic
allergic contact dermatitis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006; 55:40–6.
105 Rosen K, Mobacken H, Swanbeck G. Chronic eczematous der-
matitis of the hands: a comparison of PUVA and UVB treatment.
Acta Dermatovenereol 1987; 67:48–54.
106 Granlund H, Erkko P, Reitamo S. Comparison of the inﬂuence of
cyclosporine and topical betamethasone-17,21-dipropionate treat-
ment on quality of life in chronic hand eczema. Acta Dermatovenereol
1997; 77:54–8.
107 Ruzicka T, Lynde CW, Jemec GB et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of oral
alitretinoin (9-cis retinoic acid) in patients with severe chronic
hand eczema refractory to topical corticosteroids: results of a ran-
domized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trial. Br J
Dermatol 2008; 158:808–17.
108 Murphy GM, Maurice PD, Norris PG et al. Azathioprine treatment
in chronic actinic dermatitis: a double-blind controlled trial with
monitoring of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Br J Dermatol
1989; 121:639–46.
109 Veien NK, Hattel T, Laurberg G. Low nickel diet: an open,
prospective trial. J Am Acad Dermatol 1993; 29:1002–7.
110 Antico A, Soana R. Chronic allergic-like dermatopathies in nickel-
sensitive patients. Results of dietary restrictions and challenge
with nickel salts. Allergy Asthma Proc 1999; 20:235–42.
111 Fregert S. Occupational dermatitis in a 10-year material. Contact
Dermatitis 1975; 1:96–107.
112 Wall LM, Gebauer KA. A follow-up study of occupational skin
disease in Western Australia. Contact Dermatitis 1991; 24:241–3.
113 Malkonen T, Alanko K, Jolanki R et al. Long-term follow-up
study
of
occupational
hand
eczema.
Br
J
Dermatol
2010;
163:999–1006.
114 Bauer A, Geier J, Mahler V et al. [Contact allergies in the German
workforce: data of the IVDK network from 2003–2013]. Hautarzt
2015; 66:652–64 [in German].
115 Cahill J, Keegel T, Dharmage S et al. Prognosis of contact dermati-
tis in epoxy resin workers. Contact Dermatitis 2005; 52:147–53.
116 Petersen AH, Johansen JD, Hald M. Hand eczema-prognosis and
consequences: a 7-year follow-up study. Br J Dermatol 2014;
171:1428–33.
117 Apfelbacher CJ, Soder S, Diepgen TL et al. The impact of measures
for secondary individual prevention of work-related skin diseases
in health care workers: 1-year follow-up study. Contact Dermatitis
2009; 60:144–9.
118 Diepgen TL, Scheidt R, Weisshaar E et al. Cost of illness from
occupational hand eczema in Germany. Contact Dermatitis 2013;
69:99–106.
119 Saetterstrøm B, Olsen J, Johansen JD. Cost-of-illness of patients
with contact dermatitis in Denmark. Contact Dermatitis 2014;
71:154–61.
120 van Gils RF, Bosmans JE, Boot CR et al. Economic evaluation of
an integrated care programme for patients with hand dermatitis.
Contact Dermatitis 2013; 69:144–52.
121 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Alitretinoin for
the treatment of severe chronic hand eczema. Available at:
https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ta177 (last accessed 27 April
2016).
Appendix 1
British Society for Cutaneous Allergy-recommended baseline series
Potassium dichromate
050%
pet.
Neomycin sulfate
2000%
pet.
Thiuram mix
100%
pet.
p-Phenylenediamine
100%
pet.
Cobalt chloride
100%
pet.
Caine Mix III
1000%
pet.
Formaldehyde
200%
aq.
Colophony
2000%
pet.
Quinoline mix
600%
pet
Myroxylon pereirae (Balsam of Peru)
2500%
pet.
N-Isopropyl-N-phenyl-4-phenylenediamine
010%
pet.
Lanolin alcohol
3000%
pet.
Mercapto mix
200%
pet.
Epoxy resin
100%
pet.
Parabens mix
1600%
pet.
4-tert-Butylphenol formaldehyde resin
100%
pet.
Fragrance mix I
800%
pet.
Quaternium 15 (Dowicil 200)
100%
pet.
Nickel sulfate
500%
pet.
Cl + Me-isothiazolinone
002%
aq.
Mercaptobenzothiazole
200%
pet.
Amerchol L101
5000%
pet.
Sesquiterpene lactone mix
010%
pet.
p-Chloro-m-Cresol
100%
pet.
2-Bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol (Bronopol)
050%
pet.
Cetearyl alcohol
2000%
pet.
Sodium fusidate
200%
pet.
Tixocortol-21-pivalate
100%
pet.
Budesonide
010%
pet.
Imidazolidinyl urea (Germal115)
200%
pet.
Diazolidinyl urea (Germal 11)
200%
pet.
Methyldibromoglutaronitrile
030%
pet.
Ethylenediamine dihydrochloride
100%
pet.
4-Chloro-3,5-xylenol (PCMX)
050%
pet.
Carba mix
300%
pet.
Disperse Blue Mix 106/124
100%
pet.
Fragrance mix II
1400%
pet.
Hydroxyisohexyl cyclohexene
carboxaldehyde (Lyral)
500%
pet.
Compositae Mix (Chemotechnique)
250%
pet.
Methylisothiazolinone
020%
aq.
Sodium metabisulﬁte
100%
pet.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
328 BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
Appendix 2
Commercially available additional patch test series
Trolab
Chemotechnique Diagnostics
Antimicrobial, preservative and
antioxidant
Bakery
Cosmetics
Corticosteroid
Dental materials
Cosmetics
Hairdressing
Dental screening
Medicament (including
corticosteroids, antibiotics, local
anaesthetics and ophthalmics)
Epoxy
Metal compounds
Fragrance
Metalworking/technical oils
Hairdressing
Perfume and ﬂavours
Isocyanate
Photoallergens
Leg ulcer
Photographic chemicals
Medicament
Plant
Adhesives, dental and other
(meth)acrylate
Plastics and glues
Nails – artiﬁcial (meth)acrylate
Rubber chemicals
Printing (meth)acrylate
Sunscreen agents
Oil and cooling ﬂuid
Textile and leather dyes
Photographic chemicals
Vehicles and emulsiﬁers
Plant
Miscellaneous
Plastics and glues
Rubber additives
Scandinavian photopatch test
Shoe
Sunscreen
Textile colours and ﬁnish
Various allergens
Appendix 3
A guide to which gloves will give some degree of protection for
speciﬁc types of hazard
Hazard
Type of glove
Microorganisms
NRL, thermoplastic elastomer
Disinfectants
NRL, PVC, PE, EMA
Pharmaceuticals
NRL (permeability time very short)
Composite materials
(e.g. acrylates)
Nitrile, 4H glove
Solvents
PE, PVC, nitrile, NRL, neoprene,
butyl rubber, Viton, 4H glove
Corrosives
NRL, PE, PVC, neoprene, butyl rubber,
Viton, 4H glove
Detergents
NRL, EMA, PE, neoprene, PVC, nitrile
(if addition of organic solvents)
Machining oils
NRL, PVC, nitrile, neoprene, 4H glove
NRL, natural rubber latex; PVC, polyvinylchloride; PE, polyethy-
lene; EMA, ethylene methylmethacrylate.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Study selection Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic
Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) ﬂow diagram, summary
of ﬁndings with forest plots, Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) evidence
proﬁles indicating the quality of evidence, Linking the Evi-
dence to the Recommendations (LETR), list of excluded stud-
ies and search strategy.
© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2017) 176, pp317–329
BAD guidelines for contact dermatitis 2017, G.A. Johnston et al. 329
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/176/2/317/6601881 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
