=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists’ guidelines for the
safe and effective prescribing of methotrexate for skin
disease 2016
R.B. Warren,1 S.C. Weatherhead,2 C.H. Smith,3 L.S. Exton,4 M.F. Mohd Mustapa,4 B. Kirby5 and
P.D. Yesudian6
1The Dermatology Centre, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester
M6 8HD, U.K.
2Department of Dermatology, Royal Victoria Inﬁrmary, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4LP, U.K.
3St John’s Institute of Dermatology, Guy’s and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, London SE1 9RT, U.K.
4British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London W1T 5HQ, U.K.
5St Vincent’s University Hospital, Elm Park, Dublin, Ireland
6Glan Clwyd Hospital, Sarn Lane, Rhyl LL18 5UJ, U.K.
Correspondence
Richard B. Warren.
E-mails: richard.warren@manchester.ac.uk; guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
29 March 2016
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
R.B.W. has acted as a Senior U.K. Investigator on a placebo-controlled clinical trial of
subcutaneous methotrexate (MEDAC; speciﬁc); and has received honoraria/consultancy
fees from AbbVie, Amgen, Celgene, Novartis, Boehringer, Lilly, LEO Pharma, Pﬁzer,
Janssen-Cilag and Xenoport (nonspeciﬁc). C.H.S has been involved in clinical trials
involving systemic therapy for psoriasis, sponsored by the Medical Research Council,
Novartis UK, Pﬁzer UK, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Janssen-Cilag (nonspeciﬁc).
B.K. has been involved in clinical trials sponsored by AbbVie, Janssen, Merck Sharpe
Dolme and Pﬁzer (nonspeciﬁc); has received honoraria/consultancy fees from AbbVie,
Janssen, Merck Sharpe Dolme, Novartis and Pﬁzer (nonspeciﬁc); and is a Member of
Scientiﬁc Advisory Board for AbbVie, Celgene, Novartis and Pﬁzer. P.D.Y. has received
honoraria from LEO Pharma, Pﬁzer and AbbVie (nonspeciﬁc).
R.B.W., S.C.W., C.H.S., B.K. and P.D.Y. are members of the guideline development
group, with technical support provided by L.S.E. and M.F.M.M.
This is a new set of guidelines prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee
(T&G). Members of the Clinical Standards Unit that have been involved are P.M.
McHenry (Chairman T&G), K. Gibbon, D.A. Buckley, I. Nasr, V.J. Swale, C.E.
Duarte Williamson, T. Leslie, E. Mallon, S. Wakelin, S. Ungureanu, P. Hunasehally,
M. Cork, J. Donnelly (British National Formulary), C. Saunders (British Dermatologi-
cal Nursing Group), A.G. Brain (BAD Scientiﬁc Administrator), L.S. Exton (BAD
Information Scientist), M.F. Mohd Mustapa (BAD Clinical Standards Manager).
DOI 10.1111/bjd.14816
Produced in 2016 by the British Association of Dermatologists.
NICE has accredited the process used by the British Association of
Dermatologists to produce guidelines. Accreditation is valid for
5 years from May 2010 and has been extended by agreement to May
2016. More information on accreditation can be viewed at
www.nice.org.uk/accreditation. For full details of our accreditation
visit: www.nice.org.uk/accreditation.
1.0 Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-
date,
evidence-based
recommendations
for
the
safe
and
effective use of methotrexate (MTX) in children and adults
and its extensive on- and off-label applications for inﬂam-
matory dermatoses only. The document aims to (i) offer an
appraisal of all relevant literature up to October 2015,
focusing on any key developments; (ii) address important,
practical clinical questions relating to the primary guideline
objective;
(iii)
provide
guideline
recommendations
that,
where appropriate, take into account health economic impli-
cations; and (iv) discuss potential developments and future
directions.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in the clinic (see
section 18.0), in addition to an updated patient informa-
tion leaﬂet [available on the British Association of Dermatolo-
gists’ (BAD) website, http://www.bad.org.uk/for-the-public/
patient-information-leaﬂets].
2.0 Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The guideline development group (GDG) consisted of consul-
tant dermatologists. The draft document was made available
to the BAD membership, the British Dermatological Nursing
Group, the Primary Care Dermatological Society, the British
Society for Paediatric and Adolescent Rheumatology, the Bri-
tish Society of Rheumatology, the British Society of Gastroen-
terology, the Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
the Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Alliance and the Psoriasis
Association for comments, which were actively considered by
the GDG. Following further review, the ﬁnalized version was
peer reviewed by the Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD
(made up of the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee) prior
to publication.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
23
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
3.0 Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the British
Association of Dermatologists’ recommended methodology,1
and with reference to the Appraisal of Guidelines Research
and Evaluation (AGREE II) instrument (www.agreetrust.org).2
Recommendations were developed for implementation in
the National Health Service using a process of considered
judgement based on the evidence. PubMed, MEDLINE and
Embase databases and the Cochrane Library were searched
for
meta-analyses,
randomized
and
nonrandomized
con-
trolled clinical trials, case series, case reports and open
studies involving MTX to October 2015; search terms and
strategies
are
detailed
in
the
Supporting
Information.
Additional relevant references were also isolated from cita-
tions in reviewed literature, as well as speciﬁc targeted
searches
for
drug
interactions,
combination
therapy,
pretreatment tests and latent tuberculosis reactivation. All
identiﬁed English-language titles were screened and those
relevant for ﬁrst-round inclusion were selected for further
scrutiny. The abstracts for the shortlisted references were
then reviewed by all members of the working group and
the full papers of relevant material obtained; disagreements
in the ﬁnal selections were resolved by discussion with the
entire development group. Case reports and case series were
only considered if there was no higher-quality evidence
available.
The
structure
of
the
guidelines
was
then
discussed, with headings and subheadings decided; differ-
ent co-authors were allocated separate
subsections. Each
co-author
then
performed
a
detailed
appraisal
of
the
selected
literature
with
discussions
within
the
GDG
to
resolve any issues, and all subsections were subsequently
collated, circulated within the GDG and edited to produce
the ﬁnal guidelines.
4.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results of
future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review to English-
language references was a pragmatic decision, but the authors
recognize this may exclude some important information pub-
lished in other languages.
5.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2021; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
6.0 Introduction
MTX is an immunosuppressant drug that occupies a key place
in the management of many autoimmune and inﬂammatory
skin diseases. Although MTX has been widely prescribed in
dermatology since the 1960s, there has never been dermatol-
ogy-speciﬁc guidance on the use of this important drug. Fur-
thermore, although considered an old drug, recent high-
quality randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of MTX use in
psoriasis, in particular, and an improved understanding of
drug action, pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenetics and toxicol-
ogy, make such guidelines timely.
6.1 Methotrexate metabolism and possible mechanism of
action
The exact mechanism of action of MTX in inﬂammatory der-
matosis continues to be the subject of much debate.3 How-
ever, recent advances in both rheumatology and dermatology
have improved this understanding with postulated anti-inﬂam-
matory effects mediated via adenosine pathways. Additionally,
inhibition of nucleic acid synthesis in activated T cells and
keratinocytes accounts for some of the immunomodulatory
effects of MTX. MTX is best considered as a prodrug as it may
be converted to polyglutamyl derivatives by the enzyme
folylpolyglutamate synthetase, which are then preferentially
retained within cells.3 This is a dynamic process with removal
of glutamate residues under the control of c-glutamyl hydro-
lase. Up to seven glutamate residues may be added to MTX
with increasing anti-inﬂammatory and immune-modulating
activity of the drug with higher-order MTX polyglutamates
(Fig. 1).
After a single oral dose, the maximum serum concentration
is reached within 1–2 h.4 When given orally, bioavailability is
70%, but may range from 25% to 70%.4 Bioavailability is
improved by parenteral dosing. Only a small fraction of MTX
is metabolized, and the main route of elimination is through
the kidney. Additionally, inhibition of nucleic acid synthesis
in activated T cells/keratinocytes and Janus kinase/signal
transducers and activators of transcription signalling pathways
likely account for some of the immunomodulatory effects of
MTX.5
7.0 Indications
7.1 Licensed indications: adults
7.1.1 Chronic plaque psoriasis (strength of recommendation
A; level of evidence 1++; see Appendix 1)
Until recently, data on the efﬁcacy of MTX were limited to
two RCTs in small numbers of patients comparing MTX and
ciclosporin. These studies showed that the 75% reduction in
the baseline Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) for
MTX was > 60% in both trials. In one of the studies there
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
24 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
was no signiﬁcant difference between the treatment success of
MTX vs. ciclosporin.6,7
However, in the era of the biologics, high-quality prospec-
tive data from two RCTs and an open-label randomized trial
with
large
MTX-treated
cohorts
(n = 110,
n = 163
and
n = 215, respectively) being compared with patients treated
with biologics have become available.8–10 These data have
shown that MTX achieves a PASI 75 in around 37–40% of
patients. The ﬁrst study comparing adalimumab with MTX for
treatment of moderate-to-severe psoriasis found that after
16 weeks of treatment MTX had achieved a PASI 75 in 355%
of patients.8 In this trial the placebo response was high
(189%); this fact, allied to the seemingly low PASI 75 for
MTX, raised some doubt about whether this truly reﬂected the
efﬁcacy of MTX. Further larger studies, including a 24-week,
blinded RCT of MTX vs. briakinumab and a 16-week, open-
label RCT comparing MTX with inﬂiximab, appear to have
conﬁrmed the efﬁcacy of MTX at around the 40% PASI 75
level. Longer-term efﬁcacy data for MTX are sparse with the
only high-quality data coming from the briakinumab vs. MTX
study, which set a further primary efﬁcacy end point at week
52. Only 239% of patients achieved a PASI 75 at week 52;
nonetheless, MTX can be considered as an ongoing, long-term
option for treating psoriasis so long as there are no safety con-
cerns (see Sections 11.0 and 14.0). The discrepancy between
the efﬁcacy of MTX based on early head-to-head studies with
ciclosporin, and more recent comparisons with biologics, is
most likely due to an inaccurate effect–size estimate in the
earlier studies owing to small sample size. Additional possible
factors include the split dosing schedules chosen and lack of
clarity on folic acid supplementation in the study by Heyden-
dael et al.7
Despite the discrepancy in the true efﬁcacy level of MTX,
recent guidance published on the care of patients with psoria-
sis by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
(NICE) has reafﬁrmed MTX’s status as the ﬁrst-line systemic
agent for people with any type of psoriasis when it can be
considered under the following scenarios:11,12 psoriasis that
cannot be controlled with topical therapy and has a signiﬁcant
impact on physical, psychological or social well-being, and
one or more of the following apply: (i) psoriasis is exten-
sive (e.g. > 10% of body surface area affected or a PASI
score > 10); (ii) psoriasis is localized and associated with sig-
niﬁcant functional impairment and/or high levels of distress
(e.g. severe nail disease or involvement at high-impact sites);
(iii) phototherapy has been ineffective, cannot be used or has
resulted in rapid relapse (rapid relapse is deﬁned as > 50% of
baseline disease severity within 3 months).
It is crucial to consider the presence of psoriatic arthritis in
patients with psoriasis, as MTX can be an important agent for
most patterns of psoriatic arthritis, although notably not for
spondyloarthropathy.13 If psoriatic arthritis is suspected in
Fig 1. A postulated mechanism of action of methotrexate (MTX) in inﬂammatory dermatosis.3 MTX is transported into the cell via the solute
carrier family 19, member 1 (SLC19A1). It can be transported actively out of the cell by the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette
transporters, including ATP-binding cassette, subfamily C (CFTR/MRP), members 1–4 (ABCC1–4), and ATP-binding cassette, subfamily G,
member 2 (ABCG2). Within the cell it undergoes polyglutamation (activation) under the enzymatic control of folylpolyglutamate (FPGS). This is a
dynamic process where glutamate residues can be removed by c-glutamyl hydrolase (GGH). In the polyglutamated form MTX inhibits
aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide transformylase (ATIC), which is likely to account for some of its anti-inﬂammatory effects via an
intracellular rise in adenosine acting on a number of adenosine receptors (ADORA), including ADORA A1 and 2a. Inhibition of the folate pathway
may not be as important to its mechanism of action in psoriasis, but MTX also inﬂuences the enzyme 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase
(MTHFR), which catalyses the conversion of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (5,10-CH2-THF) to 5-methyltetrahydofolate (5-CH3-THF), a co-
substrate for homocysteine remethylation. The polyglutamated form of MTX also inhibits thymidylate synthase (TYMS), which converts
deoxyuridylate (dUMP) to deoxythymidylate (dTMP) in the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 25
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
patients with psoriasis, early involvement of a rheumatologist
is recommended, so that effective and rapid therapeutic deci-
sions can be made, in keeping with NICE guidance.12
7.2 Unlicensed indications: adults
In the UK, MTX use for cutaneous disorders is only licensed
to treat psoriasis. However, low-dose MTX is commonly used
to treat many other dermatological conditions. The evidence
for its efﬁcacy in other cutaneous disorders is outlined in the
following subsections.
7.2.1 Inﬂammatory skin disease
Atopic eczema (strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 3) There
has been one single-blinded RCT comparing MTX with aza-
thioprine in adult atopic eczema. In this study, 20 of 42
patients received MTX, with an average improvement of 42%,
as measured by severity scoring with SCOring Atopic Dermati-
tis (SCORAD). Patients were started on a dose of 10 mg
weekly. This was titrated up by 25–50 mg, to a maximum
of 225 mg weekly, if 25% improvement in SCORAD had not
been achieved since the last visit (weeks 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24).
MTX was shown to be at least equivalent to azathioprine at
week 12, using an average MTX dose of 20 mg weekly. Both
groups had a similar number of adverse events. No severe or
serious adverse events were noted.14 This study was limited
by its small size, and may have been underpowered to detect
a clinically signiﬁcant difference between the two groups.
In an open-label study of 60 patients with a very diverse
range of eczematous disorders, a 68% mean reduction in
Eczema Area and Severity Index score was reported in those
given MTX in doses of up to 75 mg weekly (n = 30) com-
pared with a 21% reduction in those given just folic acid
5 mg daily (n = 30).15 In this study, 40% of patients had ato-
pic eczema, 31% had contact dermatitis, 12% had pompholyx,
8% had seborrhoeic dermatitis, 5% had lichen simplex chroni-
cus and 3% had discoid eczema. The study lacks detail about
how the patients were randomized, and was further limited
by a lack of dose escalation, and the short duration of eczema
ﬂare-up
in
some
patients.
An
open-label,
noncontrolled
prospective study of 12 patients showed an average of 54%
improvement in six-area, six-sign atopic dermatitis (SASSAD)
score at 12 weeks with a median dose of 15 mg weekly.16
MTX was found to be well tolerated in this group with no
serious adverse events. There have been two retrospective case
series of nine and 20 patients, respectively.17,18 Both studies
reported patients responding within 3–8 weeks. In the former,
66% of patients achieved complete remission within 3 months
with a maximum dose of 20 mg weekly. In the latter, 65% of
patients achieved > 70% improvement in the physician global
assessment (PGA) with a median dose of 25 mg weekly.
Cutaneous sarcoidosis (strength of recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
There have been no RCTs for MTX in cutaneous sarcoidosis,
and just one showing that MTX has steroid-sparing effects in
acute pulmonary sarcoidosis.19 However, there was a high
dropout rate in this study, and when analysed on an inten-
tion-to-treat basis, the effect was similar to placebo. One
open-label prospective study showed total clearance of cuta-
neous sarcoidosis in 12 out of 16 treated cases,20 with the
majority clearing within the ﬁrst 4 months of treatment. In
this study, 15 of the 16 patients also had sarcoidosis at other
sites.
7.2.2 Autoimmune disorders
Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) (strength of recommendation D; level of
evidence 3) Two RCTs have assessed the efﬁcacy of MTX in sys-
temic sclerosis in adults. The ﬁrst examined the efﬁcacy of
intramuscular MTX vs. placebo in 29 patients with systemic
sclerosis affecting organs other than just the skin.21 The study
was limited by a small sample size, and showed that there
was improvement in skin score and lung function over
24 weeks, but these changes were not statistically signiﬁcant.
A larger, placebo-controlled RCT of 71 patients with early dif-
fuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis based its primary outcome
on skin scores and PGA, and again showed more improvement
with MTX, although it was not statistically signiﬁcant.22 This
study was a well-conducted, multicentre trial, but, in most
cases, doses were not escalated above 15 mg per week. There
have been two open prospective studies of MTX in limited
cutaneous systemic sclerosis. The ﬁrst evaluated the effects of
MTX and pulsed methylprednisolone in 15 patients using
objective skin scores, patient visual analogue scores, ultra-
sonography and histopathology: 14 patients were judged to
have improved.23 The second studied patients taking MTX
only, and found six of nine patients had an improved objec-
tive skin score, and seven of eight patients had less skin tight-
ness at the end of a 24-week treatment period.24
Bullous disorders (strength of recommendation D; level of evidence 3) There
have been no RCTs of MTX in pemphigoid or pemphigus.
There have been three small open-label prospective studies
of MTX in pemphigoid in combination with potent topical
corticosteroids until clinical remission was achieved (average
2–3 weeks).25–27 In these studies, a total of 45 patients were
treated with MTX using low doses (5–15 mg weekly), with
all 11 patients in one of these studies responding well within
the ﬁrst month.25 In total, 34 of the 45 patients were in
remission at the end of the studies (up to 24 months). There
have been three retrospective cohort studies of MTX in bullous
pemphigoid; these studies used low doses of MTX: 5–10 mg
weekly.28–30 One of these studies comprised 70 patients and
found 76% of patients remained in remission on MTX alone,
although the median follow-up was limited to 85 months.30
The largest study comprised 138 patients, 98 of whom
received MTX (37 of these in combination with oral pred-
nisolone), using a median dose of just 5 mg weekly. At
24 months, 43% of patients treated with MTX monotherapy
were in remission (35% in the MTX and prednisolone com-
bined group), with a median time of 11 months to achieve
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
26 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
this.28 These data suggest that MTX can be effective at control-
ling bullous pemphigoid, either in combination with cortico-
steroids or as a monotherapy. RCTs are warranted to show
whether MTX alters the natural progression of the disease
compared with corticosteroids alone.
A large, retrospective, single-centre cohort study of 185
patients with pemphigus vulgaris, including 53 who received
MTX, suggested clinical improvement in 79% of patients
when MTX was used at doses between 10 and 50 mg weekly
in combination with oral corticosteroids.31 However, no
objective measurements of improvement were recorded, and
the doses of MTX administered were higher than those rou-
tinely used for skin disorders. There have been three small ret-
rospective cohort studies using MTX as an adjuvant to
corticosteroids for pemphigus vulgaris. These showed that 66–
76% of patients could be weaned off prednisolone successfully
or have doses reduced within 6–18 months using MTX doses
of 10–25 mg weekly. All three studies were small (maximum
of 30 patients) but show consistent results.32–34 A placebo-
controlled RCT of adjuvant MTX is now warranted.
Lupus erythematosus (strength of recommendation B; level of evidence 2++)
A double-blinded, placebo-controlled RCT of 41 patients has
shown that MTX can be used successfully as a steroid-sparing
agent in controlling systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and
allow reduction in corticosteroid dose. This study showed a
signiﬁcant reduction in SLE disease activity index scores for
MTX compared with placebo (17% vs. 84%, respectively) after
6 months in
the
20 patients
receiving
MTX 15–20 mg
weekly.35 There have been two single-centre retrospective
studies of MTX reported for treating cutaneous lupus, includ-
ing patients with subacute cutaneous lupus, discoid lupus,
chilblain lupus and lupus profundus. In the largest, a cohort
of 43 patients was treated with MTX 75–250 mg weekly.
Ninety-eight per cent of patients showed a signiﬁcant decline
in disease activity, as measured by the cutaneous lupus activa-
tion index, by 8 weeks.36 A small case series of 12 patients
with cutaneous lupus showed at least partial remission in 10
patients with clearance of > 75% of lesions using doses of
10–25 mg weekly.37
7.2.3 Lymphoproliferative disorders (strength of
recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
Both the European Organisation for Research and Treatment
of Cancer and the joint BAD and UK Cutaneous Lymphoma
Group guidelines recommend low-dose MTX to control pri-
mary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) at stage IIB and
above.38,39 There are no RCTs to support its use, but a retro-
spective study of 69 patients with mycosis fungoides showed
that 33% of patients achieved at least partial remission.40 In a
study of erythrodermic CTCL, 59% of 29 patients achieved at
least partial remission.41,42 A further retrospective study of
patients with CTCL that was previously treatment refractory
showed at least a partial response in 66% of patients when
treated with a combination of MTX and bexarotene.43
7.2.4 Other indications
MTX has been used for treating lymphomatoid papulosis,
pityriasis lichenoides and palmoplantar pompholyx,44–51 but
evidence for its efﬁcacy is limited to case reports. Other possi-
ble indications supported by case reports include oral lichen
planus, dermatomyositis, cutaneous vasculitis (including cuta-
neous polyarteritis nodosa, Behcet disease and erythema eleva-
tum
diutinum),
pyoderma
gangrenosum,
necrobiosis
lipoidica, granuloma annulare, alopecia areata, chronic idio-
pathic urticaria, Hailey-Hailey disease and Langerhans cell his-
tiocytosis.52–67
Licensed and unlicensed indications for use in adults are
listed in Table 1.
7.3 Children
7.3.1 Indications
MTX is used in children for the same conditions as in adults
but is not licensed for any dermatological condition. There
Table 1 Licensed and unlicensed indications for methotrexate in adults
Strength of
recommendation
Licensed indications
Psoriasis
A
Unlicensed indications
Lupus erythematosus – systemic and
cutaneous (DLE, SCLE, chilblain lupus,
lupus profundus)a
B
Cutaneous sarcoidosisa
C
Lymphoproliferative disorders (including
CTCL, mycoses fungoides, lymphomatoid
papulosis, pityriasis lichenoides)
C
Alopecia areata
D
Atopic eczema
D
Bullous pemphigoida
D
Chronic spontaneous/idiopathic urticaria
D
Cutaneous small vessel vasculitis (including
cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa, Behcet
disease and erythema elevatum diutinum)
D
Dermatomyositis
D
Granuloma annulare
D
Hailey-Hailey disease
D
Langerhans cell histiocytosis
D
Necrobiosis lipoidica
D
Oral lichen planus
D
Pemphigusa
D
Pyoderma gangrenosum
D
Systemic sclerosis (including limited
systemic sclerosis)/localized scleroderma
(morphoea)a
D
DLE, discoid lupus erythematosus; SCLE, subacute cutaneous
lupus erythematosus; CTCL, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
aMethotrexate generally used as a steroid-sparing agent rather
than monotherapy.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 27
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
have been few RCTs speciﬁcally in the paediatric population
supporting its efﬁcacy in dermatological conditions.
In atopic eczema, a small open-label RCT of 40 children, aged
8–14 years with severe atopic dermatitis, found an equivalent
reduction in SCORAD compared with treatment with ciclos-
porin at a dose of 25 mg kg1 daily over a 12-week period,
using a ﬁxed dose of MTX of 75 mg weekly.68 However,
both ciclosporin and MTX were used at low doses, and there
was a general lack of detail in the paper about how results
were analysed. There have been three retrospective cohort
studies with a total of 86 children treated with MTX for
eczema, although one study included a further 16 children
with psoriasis or nonspeciﬁed inﬂammatory skin disease.69–71
The children were aged between 2 and 18 years and were
treated with MTX doses of up to 15 mg weekly, with the
greatest effect noted within the ﬁrst 12 weeks. MTX was
reported as being effective in 75–83% of children, but this
was often subjective and details of how efﬁcacy was assessed
are lacking. Nausea was the most common side-effect and was
reported in 14–16% of children in two of the studies but was
not mentioned in the largest study of 46 children.
An RCT of 70 children showed signiﬁcant improvement
with MTX compared with placebo in localized scleroderma (mor-
phoea) over a 12-month period using doses of 05 mg kg1
weekly (this was combined with oral prednisolone for the ﬁrst
3 months in all children).72 This study, which used an objec-
tive
assessment
of
disease
(thermography),
demonstrated
response to treatment in two-thirds of patients, as deﬁned by
absence of new lesions, a reduction in the percentage of ther-
mal change by at least 10% compared with baseline, and a
reduction or decreased extension of the target lesion.
Surprisingly, there have not been any RCTs in children with
psoriasis on MTX; however, it is used frequently in clinical
practice. Retrospective case series of children (from as young
as 2 years of age) support its use.73,74 MTX has also been used
effectively for other conditions such as pityriasis lichenoides et
varioliformis acuta and dermatomyositis.50,71,73,75
7.3.2 Dosing
MTX is generally well tolerated in the paediatric popula-
tion.76,77 Dosing studies in children are limited, but standard
clinical practice is to prescribe around 02–04 mg kg1
weekly,73,74,78 although doses of up to 07 mg kg1 are used
occasionally. Treatment is given for the shortest possible dura-
tion, using the lowest dose necessary to achieve good control,
and should not exceed 25 mg per week. Reduction in the fre-
quency of folic acid supplementation to once a week should
also be considered, especially if issues with taking oral tablets
are anticipated.
7.3.3 Monitoring
The side-effect proﬁle is similar to adults, and monitoring is
generally the same (see Section 10.3), with the exception of
serum aminoterminal peptide of procollagen III (PIIINP)
(patients with psoriasis only), where values are high in grow-
ing children. Pretreatment testing for HIV should be done at
the clinician’s discretion. There is no evidence in the derma-
tology/rheumatology literature to support the use of liver
biopsies in children with normal liver function tests (LFTs),
and this is not mentioned in the British Society for Paediatric
and Adolescent Rheumatology guidelines.79 Obesity may be a
relative contraindication to MTX, as obese children appear to
have an increased risk of LFT abnormalities.80
8.0 Contraindications
8.1 Relative contraindications (strength of
recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
Relative contraindications to MTX treatment are (i) mild-to-
moderate renal impairment; (ii) mild-to-moderate liver dys-
function; (iii) history of hepatitis B and C; (iv) gastritis; (v)
excessive alcohol intake; (vi) patient unreliability; (vii) recent
live vaccinations; and (viii) male partners of women wishing
to conceive.
8.2 Absolute contraindications (strength of
recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
Absolute contraindications to MTX treatment are (i) marrow
dysfunction or failure; (ii) being on dialysis; (iii) severe renal
dysfunction; (iv) severe hepatic dysfunction/cirrhosis; (v)
women attempting to conceive, and pregnancy and breastfeed-
ing; (vi) immunodeﬁciency states (in some cases relative, see
Section 9.7); (vii) active tuberculosis or hepatitis virus infec-
tions; (viii) pulmonary ﬁbrosis or signiﬁcantly reduced lung
function;
(ix)
active
peptic
ulceration;
(x)
concurrent
trimethoprim therapy (see Section 11.7); and (xi) hypersensi-
tivity to MTX.
9.0 Pretreatment counselling and screening
Patients should be counselled about the beneﬁts and risks of
taking MTX, screened for possible contraindications prior to
starting treatment, and a full drug history should be taken
(see Section 14.0). They should be advised particularly regard-
ing alcohol intake (see Section 9.2), the need to avoid preg-
nancy (see Section 9.3), the need for regular blood tests, the
increased risk of infection and possible drug interactions. It is
important that the once-weekly dose schedule is explained
clearly and understood by the patient.
9.1 Information for patients
Patients should be counselled about the weekly dosing sched-
ule and it should be recommended that only 25-mg tablets
are used, in order to avoid accidental and potentially life-
threatening toxicity. All patients should be given written infor-
mation about MTX prior to starting treatment, and it is helpful
to provide a patient-held record book, an example of which
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
28 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
has been produced by the National Patient Safety Agency
(http://www.nrls.npsa.nhs.uk/resources/?entryid45=59800).
Patients should be aware that MTX is an immunosuppres-
sant and that they may need to stop treatment (usually tem-
porarily) if they develop an intercurrent infection that fails to
settle after a few days or respond to conventional treatment
(see Section 12.5).
9.2 Alcohol
There is no evidence to suggest a ‘safe’ level of alcohol intake
while on MTX, but it is recommended that all patients limit
their alcohol intake to well below the national guidelines
while taking MTX.81 A pragmatic discussion with the patient
around occasional consumption of modest volumes of alcohol,
especially if they have no other hepatic risk factors, as
opposed to no alcohol at all, seems reasonable. Diabetes and
obesity may also increase the risk of hepatic impairment,82,83
and the beneﬁts and risks should be assessed for individual
patients prior to treatment, along with regular blood monitor-
ing (see Section 10.3).
9.3 Conception
MTX is a teratogen and causes a speciﬁc embryopathy. There-
fore, where relevant, women should be counselled about
pregnancy and breastfeeding, and should not conceive while
taking MTX or for at least 3 months after last taking it.84 It is
recommended that sexually active female patients use two
methods of contraception throughout this period, and should
have a pregnancy test prior to starting therapy. MTX is
excreted into breast milk and so should not be used when
breastfeeding. In the event of pregnancy, immediate referral
for an obstetric opinion is required.
Controversy exists around the safety of men fathering a preg-
nancy while taking MTX, and the general advice, based on data
linked to high-dose MTX use, is to wait for at least 3 months
after the last dose of MTX.85,86 Low-dose MTX may induce
oligospermia,87 and evidence from animal studies suggests that
MTX induces damage to spermatogenesis,88 but this has not
been examined in humans. However, prospective observational
studies comprising between 42 and 139 men taking low-dose
MTX have not found an increased risk of spontaneous abortion
or fetal malformations.89–91 Therefore, there is no evidence to
support interruption of pregnancy following impregnation by a
man taking low-dose MTX. However, it is prudent to advise
men to delay planning their family for at least 3 months follow-
ing their last dose of MTX.89
Any pregnancy related to paternal or maternal exposure
should be reported to the U.K. teratology information service
(www.uktis.org) so that further evidence can be collated.
9.4 Pretreatment screening tests
Patients should be aware of the need for, and be able to comply
with, regular blood test monitoring throughout the treatment
period, and should have a full blood count (FBC), renal and
LFTs, including serum [PIIINP (patients with psoriasis only)]
hepatitis B and C, and HIV serology (see Section 9.6). Elevation
of PIIINP to > 80 mg mL1 should prompt further hepatic
investigations.
Patients
with
pretreatment
PIIINP
levels
> 42 mg mL1 but < 8 mg mL1 can be commenced on
MTX, but elevation of PIIINP on more than three occasions in a
12-month period should prompt referral for a hepatology opin-
ion. Where there is any doubt as to the patient’s varicella zoster
(VZV) status, this should also be checked prior to treatment;
patients requiring any live vaccinations should be given these at
least 4 weeks prior to commencing MTX (see Section 9.8). If a
patient has a disease that affects the lungs (e.g. sarcoid), per-
form a chest X-ray and physical examination, and discuss with
respiratory physicians the need for pulmonary function tests at
the start of treatment.92,93 If a patient has known interstitial
lung disease, MTX should only be considered after agreement
with the respiratory physicians. In elderly patients it is prudent
to check the estimated glomerular ﬁltration rate (eGFR) prior to
commencing treatment, and reduce the prescribed dose accord-
ingly (see Table 4).
9.5 Tuberculosis
There is a recognized association between biologics and latent
tuberculosis (TB) reactivation.94 However, the link between
MTX and TB reactivation is less clearly deﬁned, and there is
currently no guidance from the Department of Health or NICE
concerning the safety of MTX in patients with latent TB.95
Patients should be asked about a personal history of TB and a
history of TB exposure. Any suspicion of latent TB should
result in screening for latent or active TB infection and treat-
ment if positive, prior to commencing MTX.
9.6 Hepatitis B and C
If a patient has evidence of active hepatitis B infection (hepati-
tis B surface antigen positive and surface antibody negative, or
IgM antibody to hepatitis B core antigen positive in combina-
tion with hepatitis surface antigen and antibody negative) they
are at risk of their disease ﬂaring if treated with immunosup-
pressant drugs such as MTX,96 and therefore this is an abso-
lute contraindication. Past infection with hepatitis B (hepatitis
B surface antigen negative, but core antibody positive  sur-
face antibody positive) is a relative contraindication to treat-
ment, and the patient should be made aware of the low risk
(< 1%) of reactivation of the infection while on treatment.96
The long-term effects of MTX on chronic hepatitis C are
unknown, but as both hepatitis C and MTX can cause hepatic
ﬁbrosis there may be a synergistic effect leading to more rapid
progression of liver ﬁbrosis. Therefore, the risks and beneﬁts
of MTX use in patients with hepatitis C need to be weighed
up carefully, and patients require close monitoring for pro-
gression of ﬁbrosis. Involvement of a hepatologist in the man-
agement of such cases is essential. MTX should be avoided in
patients with advanced ﬁbrosis or cirrhosis.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 29
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
9.7 HIV
A patient’s HIV status should be checked prior to starting
MTX, as patients who are HIV-positive will have an increased
risk of leucopenia and opportunistic infections.97 Psoriasis in
HIV-positive patients will often be more severe and refractory
to treatments, and in many cases, controlling their viral load
may improve control of their psoriasis.98–100 Immunosuppres-
sants in HIV-positive patients should be minimized, but some
patients with severe psoriasis will require systemic treatment,
and MTX has been used without adverse events to treat such
patients, although evidence is limited to case reports.97,101
Therefore, if used in these patients, it should be with caution
and should be avoided in patients with known opportunistic
infections. All such patients should be managed jointly with
the local specialists in HIV infection.
9.8 Varicella zoster virus
Varicella infection can be more serious in immunocompro-
mised individuals and the risk of disseminated or haemor-
rhagic varicella is increased.102 If a patient has no reported
history of chickenpox, VZV serology should be checked.
Where serology is negative, the patient should be considered
for the varicella zoster vaccination. The Department of Health
recommends that if the vaccine is to be given to those already
taking immunosuppressants their treatment should be stopped
for 6 months prior to the vaccine being administered.102
Advice should be sought from the local microbiology team
about the need and type of vaccination required. Further
details on immunization are covered in Section 12.1.
10.0 Dosage and delivery
10.1 Dosage (strength of recommendation B; level of
evidence 2++)
MTX is available in oral, subcutaneous, intramuscular and
intravenous preparations, administered once a week in all formu-
lations (see Section 9.1). Oral MTX is preferred by most der-
matologists and patients, with the starting dose dependent on
the renal function, age of the patient and associated comor-
bidities. Consideration can be given to start with the subcuta-
neous formulation, which may lessen side-effects and be more
effective.103 The initial dose used in four well-designed RCTs
in psoriasis varied between 5 and 15 mg, with increments
dependent on the response to treatment.7–10 If the improve-
ment was < 25% to 50% of baseline PASI in the ﬁrst 6 weeks,
the RCTs increased the dose of MTX by 5 mg every 4–
6 weeks until a maximal dose of 25 mg a week was reached.
NICE recommends incremental dosing of MTX (e.g. starting
with an initial dose of 5–10 mg once a week) and gradually
increasing up to an effective dose to a maximum of 25 mg
weekly. In those with normal renal function a more aggressive
dosing regimen may be considered, such as starting at 15 mg
once weekly.10 In the elderly and those with renal impairment
or marrow dysfunction, the initial dose can be reduced to
25 mg. Patients should be warned that it takes at least 4–
8 weeks for the therapeutic effect to manifest once the dose is
altered.104 After the maximal dose of 25 mg a week is
reached, assess response to therapy after 3 months (see Sec-
tion 7.0 – some indications may take longer to respond) and
stop
treatment
if
it
is
ineffective.12
Once
remission
is
achieved, the goal would be to reduce the medication to the
lowest possible dose that brings about control of the condition
and permits adequate tolerability.12 If the disease being treated
remains active at the highest doses, or if side-effects are
encountered, it is worthwhile considering a change to the
subcutaneous formulation before discontinuing the drug.83,105
The dose for parenteral use is the same as that used orally,
although consideration needs to be given to the differences in
bioavailability and a lower dosage may be equally efﬁca-
cious.103
10.1.1 Recommendations
In healthy adults, consider starting MTX at doses between 5
and 15 mg weekly. Those with renal impairment may need
lower doses, and could be commenced on 25–50 mg weekly
(see Table 4). Once remission is achieved, use the lowest
maintenance dose to control the condition. Consider switching
to alternative medication or use subcutaneous MTX if minimal
efﬁcacy is achieved within 12–16 weeks of treatment.
10.2 Folic acid (strength of recommendation A; level of
evidence 1++)
Practice with respect to folic acid supplementation during
MTX therapy varies across the U.K. and there is a lack of clear
evidence regarding its optimal dosing schedule. Patients with
severe psoriasis may have pre-existing folic acid depletion that
could be associated with an increased cardiovascular risk
through hyperhomocysteinaemia.106 Studies have shown that
the use of folic acid does not have an effect on MTX efﬁcacy,
although most of the evidence is from patients with rheuma-
toid arthritis treated with MTX.107 The dose of folic acid from
previous RCTs of MTX used to treat psoriasis varies between
5 mg weekly and 5 mg daily.8,108 Folic acid use decreases the
mucosal and gastrointestinal side-effects of MTX,109 and may
have a protective effect against hepatotoxicity.110 There are no
conclusive data to prove that haematological complications are
reduced with folic acid supplementation.111 In a meta-analy-
sis, folinic acid supplementation was not shown to have any
advantages over folic acid.107 Given that folinic acid is more
expensive, it is currently recommended to use folic acid. In
theory, folic acid may compete for cellular uptake of MTX
when given on the same day. The recommendations are the
same for the treatment of skin diseases other than psoriasis.
10.2.1 Recommendations
Folic acid supplementation is recommended.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
30 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
10.3 Monitoring (strength of recommendation C; level of
evidence 2+)
Full blood count, liver function tests, and urea and electrolytes
(U&Es) need to be repeated every 1–2 weeks for the ﬁrst
month and until a steady dosing regimen is achieved – FBC
should be performed before dosing in week 2. A downward
trend of FBC and neutrophil count could be a sign of toxicity,
even if the absolute levels are normal. Similarly, an upward
trend in liver transaminases should also be noted. Once the
patient is on a stable dose, the assessment can be performed
every 2–3 months. Patients with risk factors such as renal
insufﬁciency or advanced age may need closer monitoring,
both at the onset of treatment and after dosage increases.104
Serial elevation of PIIINP may be an indication of hepatic
ﬁbrosis and it is suggested that, where available, the test is
repeated four times a year (patients with psoriasis only)
(see Table 2 and Section 9.6).
11.0 Toxicity
11.1 Bone marrow suppression
Fortunately, deaths related to the use of MTX are rare but
when encountered are most often secondary to myelosuppres-
sion. Such case reports are sparse and usually in the context of
prescribing and dispensing errors, poor renal function and/or
concomitant drug use (see Section 11.7). Patients should be
made aware of the need to report features of MTX toxicity
such as mouth ulceration, of any changes in prescription such
as concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs
(NSAIDs) and that intercurrent illness that induces dehydration
would be a reason to omit MTX dosing until recovery.
11.2 Hepatotoxicity
MTX is a recognized hepatotoxin, although the signiﬁcance of
its hepatotoxic potential in patients may have been overesti-
mated in the past. MTX can cause drug-induced hepatitis and
long-term use in psoriasis may be associated with hepatic
ﬁbrosis. Hepatic ﬁbrosis on liver biopsy is accepted as evi-
dence of hepatic injury, although its overall clinical signiﬁ-
cance is unclear, as most patients do not progress to cirrhosis
and clinically signiﬁcant hepatic dysfunction.110
The quality of the studies assessing long-term hepatotoxic-
ity with the use of MTX for skin disease is poor and almost
exclusively in psoriasis where there are multiple known fac-
tors that can drive risk of liver ﬁbrosis, particularly the meta-
bolic syndrome and alcohol. Data from published long-term,
observational cohort studies are at high risk of bias as a
result of these confounding variables, selection bias and ret-
rospective design. A recent systematic review and meta-analy-
sis concluded that MTX therapy in psoriasis is associated
with a 22% increased risk of hepatic ﬁbrosis but found no
evidence that cumulative dose of MTX, diabetes, obesity or
alcohol intake increases this risk.110 A previous meta-analysis
that included a mixed population and different study design
concluded that hepatic ﬁbrosis was associated with diabetes,
obesity and alcohol intake but not cumulative MTX dose.83
In practice, when using MTX, clinicians (and patients) need
to bear in mind that long-term MTX use is associated with
an increased risk of liver ﬁbrosis, and that this risk may be
greater in those at risk of, or with, pre-existing liver
disease.103,112
11.2.1 Monitoring for liver toxicity (strength of
recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
The gold standard for assessing liver ﬁbrosis is liver histology.
Liver biopsies are associated with signiﬁcant morbidity and a
risk of mortality, estimated to be one in 1000 in a recent U.K.
audit.113 As only a tiny fraction of the liver can be examined,
there is a concern that the ﬁndings from a liver biopsy may
not be representative of the whole organ; furthermore, the
procedure is expensive.114 The routine use of liver biopsy for
monitoring MTX hepatotoxicity is no longer recommended.
Standard LFTs appear inadequate in isolation for monitoring
for the development of hepatic ﬁbrosis, although they are
Table 2 Recommended action for abnormal test results (strength of recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)124,206
Total WBC count < 3 9 109 cells L1
Withhold/decrease dose of MTX; consider discussing with haematologist
Neutrophils < 10 9 109 cells L1
Withhold/decrease dose of MTX; consider discussing with haematologist
Platelets < 100 9 cells L1
Withhold/decrease dose of MTX; consider discussing with haematologist
MCV > 105 fL
Consider withholding/decreasing dose of MTX; check serum B12, folate and
thyroid function tests; consider discussing with haematologist
AST and ALT increased by less than two
times the normal
Repeat LFTs in 2–4 weeks
AST and ALT greater than 2–3 times the normal
Withhold/decrease dose of MTX; consider other risk factors and consider discussing
with gastroenterologist
New or increasing dyspnoea or dry cough
Withhold/decrease dose of MTX; repeat chest X-ray and pulmonary function tests
and discuss with respiratory team
Severe sore throat, abnormal bruising
Withhold MTX; check FBC immediately
WBC, white blood cells; MTX, methotrexate; MCV, mean corpuscular volume; AST, aspartate aminotransferase; ALT, alanine transaminase;
LFT, liver function test; FBC, full blood count.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 31
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
useful in detecting acute MTX-induced hepatitis.115–119 A sys-
tematic review estimated that standard LFTs are only 38% sen-
sitive and 83% speciﬁc for detecting hepatic ﬁbrosis.110
11.2.2 Serum aminoterminal peptide of procollagen III
(strength of recommendation C; level of evidence 2+)
The knowledge that standard LFTs are inadequate for detecting
MTX-induced ﬁbrosis in patients has led to the development
of markers of hepatic ﬁbrosis in order to monitor these
patients.
PIIINP is a serum biomarker of ﬁbrosis and has only been
assessed in patients with psoriasis treated with MTX where
several large case series have been reported.119–121 It is a sen-
sitive marker of ﬁbrosis but is relatively nonspeciﬁc.121
In a study of 87 patients with psoriasis monitored by serial
liver biopsy up to 6 years, no histological evidence of ﬁbrosis
was found in those patients with consistently normal PIIINP
values.119 In a similar study comparing serial PIIINP measure-
ments and liver histology in 70 patients with psoriasis moni-
tored for up to 11 years, normal serial PIIINP measurement
was associated with an absence of liver ﬁbrosis; in all four
patients in whom ﬁbrosis was detected on liver histology,
serial PIIINP values had been abnormal.118
PIIINP may be raised as a result of active bone remodelling
following orthopaedic surgery, skeletal fractures, erosive psori-
atic arthritis or in growing children. However, many patients
with arthritis do not have raised values, providing reassurance
that active liver ﬁbrosis is not present.83 It may also be less
reliable in smokers.121
A meta-analysis has estimated the sensitivity of serial PIIINP
measurement for detecting ﬁbrosis at 77% with a speciﬁcity
of 915%.83 The negative predictive value of normal serial
PIIINP measurements is 97%, with a positive predictive value
of 50%. This analysis assumes a prevalence of hepatic ﬁbrosis
of 10%, which is higher than in most recent studies.121 A
more recent meta-analysis assessed the sensitivity and speci-
ﬁcity of a single PIIINP measurement and reported rates of
74–77% and 77–85%, respectively.122 The serial measurement
of PIIINP appears to be a cost-effective method of monitoring
for hepatic ﬁbrosis in this population.123 If abnormal PIIINP
levels exist then consideration should be given to a hepatology
opinion and/or MTX withdrawal. This decision should be
made in the context of the risk/beneﬁt of liver biopsy and the
risk/beneﬁt of alternative therapy. It is worth noting that serial
PIIINP measurement has been studied only in patients receiv-
ing MTX for psoriasis and not in RCTs. All the studies have
relatively small numbers, are retrospective (except for that of
Boffa et al., which was prospective)118 and suffer from ascer-
tainment bias. These studies assessed serial PIIINP measure-
ment and its use as a single measurement appears to be
unreliable. Its validity in other dermatological conditions that
are treated with MTX (e.g. sarcoidosis and atopic dermatitis)
is unknown.
Hepatic imaging with standard ultrasonography is unable to
detect hepatic ﬁbrosis until cirrhosis has developed and gross
anatomical changes in hepatic size and blood ﬂow have devel-
oped, although it may be useful in detecting steatosis and for
assessing patients with abnormal LFTs.112,115,121,124 Other
imaging modalities, such as magnetic resonance imaging and
dynamic hepatic scintigraphy, appear insensitive for assessing
occult ﬁbrosis.
Transient elastography is a technique that measures liver
‘stiffness’ using an ultrasound pulse. It may be technically dif-
ﬁcult in patients with obesity and is currently available only in
specialized centres. However, it has been shown to be both
sensitive and speciﬁc for the detection of hepatic ﬁbrosis in
patients with hepatitis C, and to a lesser degree in alcoholic
liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.125
There is only one study on its use for screening for hep-
atic ﬁbrosis in patients with psoriasis on MTX therapy.126 It
has been suggested that its accuracy can be improved by
combining its score with a serum biomarker of ﬁbrosis such
as Fibrotest©. Fibrotest is a patented algorithm that calculates
the risk of hepatic ﬁbrosis based on the patient’s age, sex
and a number of biochemical parameters, including alanine
transaminase, haptoglobin, apolipoprotein A1, c-glutamyl-
transpeptidase and total bilirubin.127 A retrospective study
compared an enhanced liver ﬁbrosis biomarker with PIIINP
and reported that it was as effective as PIIINP in screening
for hepatic ﬁbrosis.128 The use of these tests has not been
validated in large cohorts of patients with psoriasis on MTX
therapy.
11.2.3 Recommendations
Recommended baseline assessments include serum PIIINP,
standard LFTs and consideration of other risk factors for liver
disease (e.g. fatty liver disease, alcohol, etc.). Monitor LFTs
and PIIINP at least every 3 months (patients with psoriasis
only) and consider onward referral for specialist advice if
abnormal (see Table 2), speciﬁcally in relation to PIIINP. Refer
onward for further specialist assessment (i) if PIIINP is
> 8 mg L1 on two occasions; (ii) if three measurements are
> 42 mg L1 in a 12-month period; or (iii) if > 10 mg L1
on one occasion. The routine use of liver biopsy for monitor-
ing MTX hepatotoxicity is not recommended.
11.3 Pulmonary (strength of recommendation D; level of
evidence 4)
Interstitial lung disease is a rare complication of MTX therapy
for rheumatoid arthritis and even rarer in patients with psoria-
sis.129 Pulmonary toxicity from MTX therapy is not related to
the cumulative dose of MTX and is not associated with bone
marrow or hepatotoxicity; fatalities have been reported.130
The symptoms are nonspeciﬁc and include a dry cough and
dyspnoea. The incidence has been estimated at 003% of
patients, but large studies are lacking.
Pre-existing lung disease, psoriatic arthritis and cigarette
smoking appear to be risk factors for interstitial lung disease
associated with MTX in patients with psoriasis.131,132
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
32 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
11.3.1 Recommendations
Enquiry regarding history of pulmonary disease and respira-
tory symptoms should be made at initiation of MTX and at
subsequent visits. Chest X-ray, further investigations and/or
respiratory referral are necessary if (i) symptoms are present;
and (ii) the patient is > 40 years of age and a cigarette smo-
ker or has a background disease putting them at risk of respi-
ratory complications (e.g. sarcoid).
11.4 Renal (strength of recommendation D; level of
evidence 3)
MTX is excreted predominantly by the kidneys;133 it is ﬁltered
in the renal glomeruli and also undergoes active secretion and
reabsorption in the renal tubules.134 Analysis of multiple trials
in the rheumatoid arthritis literature suggests that baseline
renal function affects the risk of side-effects from MTX –
worsening renal function is associated with increasing toxic-
ity.135 Myelosuppression is the most important cause of MTX-
associated death and this is increased signiﬁcantly in renal dys-
function.136 Therefore, evaluation of renal function with eGFR
is recommended at baseline (Table 3).137 It should be noted
that eGFR can be unreliable when there are extremes of body
mass (body builders, muscle wasting disorders) and the serum
creatinine can be raised even in the presence of normal renal
function. Extrapolating from guidelines in the rheumatology
literature, the recommendation is to avoid MTX in those with
a creatinine clearance of < 20 mL min1 and to halve the
dose in those with a creatinine clearance of between 20 and
50 mL min1 (Table 4).138
Fever and diarrhoea and the use of certain drugs (see Sec-
tion 11.7) could predispose to a sudden worsening of renal
function and patients should be warned to omit MTX doses if
they are at risk of acute dehydration. NSAIDs are commonly
co-prescribed in those with psoriatic arthritis and could pre-
dispose to renal dysfunction (see Section 11.7). If patients
develop worsening renal function, the FBC should be moni-
tored closely and dose reductions considered.103 Patients on
dialysis are particularly at risk of fatal pancytopenia. This effect
could be due not only to accumulation of MTX, but also to an
immunological
mechanism.
The
use
of
haemodialysis,
haemoperfusion and plasmapheresis may be ineffective in
MTX intoxication.139
11.4.1 Recommendations
Reduction in MTX dosage should be considered in those with
suboptimal renal function. Avoid MTX in patients on dialysis
and with a creatinine clearance < 20 mL min1.
11.5 Nausea (strength of recommendation B; level of
evidence 2++)
Nausea is one of the commonest side-effects of MTX, occur-
ring in up to 25% of patients. It tends to occur within 12–
24 h of consumption of the medication and is dose-depen-
dent.140 It may be mild but can also be severe enough to limit
therapy. The usual advice is to take the medication before
bedtime or with food; folic acid supplementation of up to
5 mg daily has been shown to reduce nausea,111,141,142
although this has not been replicated in other studies.143,144
Ondansetron, given at a dose of 8 mg 2 h before the MTX
dose and repeated 12 and 24 h later if required can be an
effective way of managing the nausea.145,146 Granisetron is an
alternative 5-HT3 antagonist that has been helpful in MTX-
induced nausea for patients with rheumatoid arthritis.147 Par-
enteral delivery of MTX may also reduce nausea and should
be considered.148
11.6 Carcinogenic risk
MTX is used commonly as a chemotherapeutic agent as it
inhibits intracellular folate production and as such is toxic to
rapidly growing cancer cells. There is considerable debate as
to whether MTX therefore carries any increased risk of devel-
oping malignancy in those on long-term, low-dose MTX for
chronic inﬂammatory conditions.
There is contradictory literature on malignancy risk associ-
ated with low-dose MTX, with most controversy surrounding
a possible link with lymphoma. In a long-term study of 248
patients with psoriasis (median follow-up of 7 years) on low-
dose MTX assessed for incident malignancies, 10 patients
developed malignant neoplasms, including two lymphomas.149
The authors concluded that MTX therapy, as used in the treat-
ment of psoriasis, did not seem to contribute to the develop-
ment of malignant neoplasms as the rates were consistent
with those expected in any population. In contrast, in a popu-
lation-based cohort study conducted in the U.K. in 2003,
Table 3 Glomerular ﬁltration rate (GFR) categories for chronic kidney
disease
GFR (mL min1
173 m2)
Description
G1
> 90
Normal or high
G2
60–89
Mildly decreased
G3a
45–59
Mild to moderately decreased
G3b
30–44
Moderately to severely decreased
G4
15–29
Severely decreased
G5
< 15
Renal failure
Table 4 Methotrexate (MTX) dosage dependent on glomerular
ﬁltration rate (GFR)
GFR (mL min1 173 m2)
Dose
> 90
Normal dose
20–50
Half dose
< 20
Avoid MTX
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 33
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
patients with psoriasis had a 295 times increased relative risk
of developing lymphoma compared with those without psori-
asis.150 Stern reported that the incidence of lymphoma in
patients
receiving
psoralen
combined
with
ultraviolet
A
(PUVA) increased only in those patients treated with high
cumulative doses of MTX (≥36 months of exposure) when
compared with that expected in the general population.151
The main issue with these studies is the potential for misclas-
siﬁcation of CTCL as psoriasis.
Nonetheless, the World Health Organization classiﬁcation of
lymphoid neoplasms includes the phenomenon of a lympho-
proliferative disease associated with MTX, known as MTX-
LPD, which is deﬁned as a lymphoid proliferation or lym-
phoma in a patient immunosuppressed with MTX.152 This was
based on the ﬁnding of numerous reports of patients, the vast
majority suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and many of
whom were Epstein–Barr virus-positive and on low-dose
MTX, developing lymphoproliferative disorders that reversed
on stopping MTX.
Overall, the risk of malignancy associated with low-dose
MTX use in patients with psoriasis appears consistent with
background population rates, but vigilance for lymphoma is
advisable.
11.7 Drug interactions
Drug interactions with MTX usually occur due to altered phar-
macokinetic effects, such as displacement of protein binding
and reduced renal elimination, but can occur as a result of a
combination of different mechanisms (see Table 5) – all
patients starting MTX should have a detailed medication his-
tory taken and a detailed review of potential interactions
undertaken. MTX initially binds to serum albumin and there-
fore drugs that displace this, such as antibiotics, may increase
serum MTX levels. Elimination of MTX is principally renal,
and therefore interactions are likely to be more signiﬁcant in
patients with reduced renal function, such as in the elderly. As
MTX can be hepatotoxic, caution should be used when pre-
scribing this with other drugs that also cause hepatotoxicity,
including alcohol, azathioprine and retinoids.112,153 Some of
the most common interactions are described in the following
subsections, but co-prescription with biologics, ciclosporin,
ultraviolet B (UVB) and retinoids are dealt with elsewhere.
11.7.1 Nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs
Nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs can reduce renal elimi-
nation of MTX, leading to toxicity. Case reports have been
published following signiﬁcant morbidity and mortality fol-
lowing co-prescription of some NSAIDs and MTX, in particu-
lar following the use of naproxen, diclofenac, ibuprofen and
indometacin.154–157 However, these patients were often also
taking other drugs that may also have interacted with MTX
(e.g. trimethoprim and allopurinol), and a study by Stewart
and Evans failed to show any increase in toxicity in 15
patients on both low-dose MTX and naproxen.156 Some
NSAIDs, such as celecoxib, do not interact with MTX.158
Where possible, concomitant use of NSAIDs that interact with
MTX should be avoided, but if co-prescription is necessary,
blood monitoring should occur at least every 2 months.159
11.7.2 Antibiotics
The evidence for antibiotic interactions comes mostly from
concomitant use of trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole (co-
trimoxazole) with low-dose MTX resulting in bone marrow
suppression.154,156,160–162
Case
reports
also
show
that
trimethoprim with MTX can also cause immunosuppression,
although most cases are reported in the elderly who often
have a degree of renal impairment.163,164 Co-trimoxazole,
trimethoprim and other antifolate drugs should be avoided in
patients taking MTX.
Other antibiotics, including penicillins, tetracyclines and
ciproﬂoxacin, have been shown to increase MTX levels when
high-dose MTX is used,165–168 but this does not appear to be
an issue in clinical practice. Patients on long-term antibiotics
for conditions such as acne may require monitoring more fre-
quently, but if antibiotics are given for a severe infection or
an infection that is not responding to standard treatment,
MTX should be stopped until the patient recovers and the
antibiotic course is complete.
See Table 6 for recommendations for MTX use in clinical
practice.
Table 5 Known drugs that interact with methotrexate (MTX) to
increase toxicity
Mechanism
Examples of drugs that may
increase MTX toxicity
Reduced renal elimination
Many NSAIDs
Salicylates
Penicillin
Ciclosporin
Probenicid
Proton pump inhibitors
(possible reduction)
Hepatotoxicity
Statins
Alcohol
Azathioprine
Tetracyclines
Reduced MTX
protein binding
Phenytoin
Penicillin
Tetracyclines
Sulfonamides
Probenicid
Salicylates
Retinoids
Folic acid deﬁciency
Trimethoprim
Sulfonamides
Barbiturates
Nitrofurantoin
NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drug.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
34 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
12.0 Special circumstances
12.1 Vaccinations
Live-attenuated vaccines in immunosuppressed individuals can
predispose them to infection. Therefore, vaccines such as
measles, mumps, rubella, varicella, oral polio, typhoid, bacil-
lus Calmette-Guerin and yellow fever should be avoided in
patients taking MTX. Live vaccines should be given at least
4 weeks prior to starting MTX, and antibodies should be
checked for varicella status if the history of previous infection
is unclear. The Department of Health recommends that where
live vaccines need to be given for people who are established
on an immunosuppressant that it should be stopped for
6 months before the vaccine is given.102 Inactivated vaccines
are safe to give during treatment, but the level of immunity
achieved may be lower than in patients not taking MTX.169 As
MTX induces immunosuppression, patients have a higher risk
of infection and therefore should be encouraged to receive the
annual inﬂuenza vaccination (n.b. this should not be the new
live inﬂuenza vaccine that is being offered to children) and
the 5-yearly pneumococcal vaccine. Further information can
be found in the U.K. Department of Health’s ‘Green Book’
(‘Immunisation against infectious disease’).102
12.2 Surgery
There have been several prospective randomized studies pub-
lished in the rheumatology literature comparing the risk of
infection or surgical complications in patients who continue
with MTX prior to elective orthopaedic surgery with those
who stop MTX. The risk of infection and postoperative com-
plication did not appear to be affected following surgery in
64 and 388 patients, respectively.170,171 No studies have
looked at peri-/postoperative complications in patients receiv-
ing low-dose MTX for dermatological indications, or in
patients following general surgery. Therefore, it is assumed
that when MTX is controlling an individual’s skin disease, it
can be continued during the perioperative period. However,
where patients are due to undergo major surgery and have
comorbidities such as diabetes, which may alter infection risk,
the use of an immunosuppressive drug such as MTX may the-
oretically augment infection risk, and the decision to continue
must be decided on a case-by-case basis.
12.3 Overdose
Symptoms of possible MTX overdose include mucositis, fever,
diarrhoea, erythema, ulceration and, rarely, cutaneous necroly-
sis, and may take 6–23 days to manifest.172–176 MTX tablets
are dispensed as 25 mg and 10 mg; both are small tablets of
similar appearance. Inadvertent overdose is therefore possible
due to confusion over the tablet strength, and patients should
be made aware of this. To avoid such confusion, it is recom-
mended that only the 25-mg strength is prescribed; the dose
should be written out in full in uppercase letters to remove
ambiguity around the placement of the decimal point. Fur-
thermore, the frequency of dosing may cause confusion as
MTX is typically taken once weekly rather than daily.
In the event of an overdose, early treatment may be life sav-
ing. If 1 mg kg1 of MTX (or greater) has been ingested
within an hour, the patient should be given activated char-
coal.177 The patient should be admitted to hospital, have their
serum MTX levels measured at least 4 h after ingestion and
given calcium folinate (folinic acid) as soon as possible. Foli-
nic acid is given by intravenous infusion, using an initial dose
of up to 100 mg m2 if the MTX level is unknown, with sub-
sequent oral/intravenous doses every 6 h (see Toxbase for
doses to be given when MTX level is available).177 This is
most effective when initiated within a few hours of taking the
last MTX dose, with doubtful efﬁcacy if initiated later than
24 h.
It
should
be
continued
until
MTX
levels
are
< 005 lmol L1
or
haematological
abnormalities
have
returned to normal and mucosal ulceration has healed.
All patients should be kept well hydrated to improve renal
elimination of MTX, and urine alkalization with sodium bicar-
bonate should be considered to prevent MTX precipitation
within the renal tubules. A human granulocyte colony-
Table 6 Recommendations in particular clinical situations
Indication
Strength of
recommendation
Psoriasisa
A
Lupus erythematosus – systemic and
cutaneous (DLE, SCLE, chilblain lupus,
lupus profundus)b
B
Cutaneous sarcoidosisb
C
Lymphoproliferative disorders (including
CTCL, mycosis fungoides, lymphomatoid
papulosis, pityriasis lichenoides)
C
Alopecia areata
D
Atopic eczema
D
Bullous pemphigoidb
D
Chronic spontaneous/idiopathic urticaria
D
Cutaneous small vessel vasculitis (including
cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa, Behcet
disease and erythema elevatum diutinum)
D
Dermatomyositis
D
Granuloma annulare
D
Hailey-Hailey disease
D
Langerhans cell histiocytosis
D
Necrobiosis lipoidica
D
Oral lichen planus
D
Pemphigusb
D
Pyoderma gangrenosum
D
Systemic sclerosis (including limited
systemic sclerosis)/localized scleroderma
(morphoea)b
D
DLE, discoid lupus erythematosus; SCLE, subacute cutaneous
lupus erythematosus; CTCL, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
aLicensed, bmethotrexate generally used as a steroid-sparing
agent rather than monotherapy.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 35
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
stimulating factor such as ﬁlgrastim can be used for toxic bone
marrow suppression, given subcutaneously at a dose of
5 lg kg1 daily to accelerate myeloid recovery.178 There is a
high risk of mortality associated with MTX overdose, and
patients should be monitored carefully for signs of sepsis and
treated accordingly.
12.4 History of cancer
There is little known about the effect of giving MTX to those
who have a history of cancer. It is advised that where patients
are under active follow-up for cancer, the responsible team
should be consulted and the decision to start MTX should be
discussed with them prior to commencing treatment.
12.5 Intercurrent infections
Low-dose MTX is associated with an increased risk of infec-
tion, in particular pneumonia, skin or soft tissue infections
and urinary tract infections. A double-blinded randomized trial
in patients with rheumatoid arthritis showed a similar rate of
infection of 7% in patients taking either MTX or azathioprine
for
rheumatoid
arthritis,
with
most
infections
occurring
within the ﬁrst 18 months.179 It is recommended that MTX is
stopped temporarily during severe infection or when infection
is not responding to standard treatment, but can be re-started
when the infection has cleared.
Opportunistic infections have also been reported in patients
taking MTX; these occur at any time, usually within the ﬁrst
12 weeks of treatment, and the risk remains throughout the
treatment course.180 Most reports are found in patients with
rheumatoid arthritis who were on concurrent medications,
but opportunistic infections have been reported rarely in
patients treated for psoriasis.181 MTX should be discontinued
in patients who develop opportunistic infections.
13.0 Co-prescription
13.1 Biologics
The combination of any biological therapy with MTX is not
licensed; however, this practice is increasingly undertaken, in
an attempt to improve efﬁcacy and reduce the risk of
immunogenicity related to monoclonal-based biologics for the
treatment of psoriasis.
MTX has been demonstrated to be safe with potentially
improved efﬁcacy when used in combination with tumour
necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists.182–186 MTX has also been
combined with ustekinumab, usually in an effort to maintain
or improve efﬁcacy.187 Zachariae et al. randomized 59 patients,
who had an inadequate response to MTX treatment, to receive
either etanercept with a tapered MTX dosing schedule, or
combination therapy throughout the whole study period of
24 weeks.185 It was shown that signiﬁcantly more patients in
the combination group achieved PASI 75 compared with
patients who had a tapered MTX dosing schedule.
The optimal safety monitoring for combination therapy of a
biologic and MTX has not been determined. Consensus guide-
lines have reviewed this topic and recommend that all param-
eters that are monitored for each drug as monotherapy should
be assessed for combination therapy, with the monitoring
interval deﬁned by the drug with the most stringent monitor-
ing criteria.188
MTX indications in dermatology continue to expand and
one such example is the potential role of MTX reducing anti-
drug antibody formation against biological therapies, thereby
prolonging the efﬁcacy of the biological drug. A reduction in
immunogenicity has been shown with concomitant MTX use
with anti-TNFs in rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn disease and
spondyloarthropathy;189 the same data are not available in
psoriasis populations, but it seems likely that a similar reduc-
tion in drug antibody formation may be seen.
13.2 Ciclosporin
MTX has been combined with ciclosporin in several studies,
with a total patient population of 124. One study randomized
patients with psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis to receive either
MTX and placebo or MTX and ciclosporin.190 This study
showed a statistically signiﬁcant difference between groups on
PASI and psoriatic arthritis outcomes in favour of combination
therapy. In the remaining uncontrolled studies, a beneﬁcial
effect of combining MTX with ciclosporin was reported in
four.191,192 One case series reported that three of four patients
experienced worsening of their psoriasis, which occurred fol-
lowing a dose reduction of ciclosporin owing to side-effects.
There are additional safety concerns, in particular increased
immunosuppressive effects, with combining these two drugs
such that co-therapy would not be recommended routinely.
The most common scenario for use of both drugs is now
when transitioning from one therapy to the next.
The evidence for the use of this combination of drugs for
other indications is sparse and no recommendation can be
made.
13.3 Ultraviolet B
An RCT has shown that combining MTX with UVB is signiﬁ-
cantly more effective than just UVB in the treatment of psoria-
sis, allowing fewer UVB treatments compared with UVB
alone.193 MTX has also been combined with PUVA, but has a
higher risk of subsequent skin cancers in these patients.194
However, it is not known if the risk of skin cancers is
enhanced following combination of MTX with UVB.
Clinicians should be aware that high and low doses of MTX
can be associated rarely with MTX photoreactivation. In this
idiosyncratic phenomenon, an individual takes MTX 2–5 days
after erythemogenic doses of UV radiation (as erythema
begins to subside) and this induces severe erythema and
sometimes blistering in areas that were previously exposed to
UV but not in UV-protected areas.195–198 MTX taken immedi-
ately after exposure to suberythemogenic doses of UVB or
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
36 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
PUVA has also been reported to cause a delayed erythematous
reaction lasting 24 h, which may be due to immediate inhibi-
tion of DNA repair pathways.199
13.4 Retinoids
No RCTs have examined the efﬁcacy and safety of combined
treatment with retinoids and MTX for any indication. Evidence
for their use in combination is only from case reports. Both
retinoids and MTX are hepatotoxic, and rarely this may be
exacerbated if they are prescribed in combination.200 How-
ever, retinoids are prescribed occasionally in conjunction with
MTX to good effect.201,202 More frequently, they are pre-
scribed together for short periods of time when patients are in
transition between these two treatments, as both drugs can
take several weeks to be effective. Prescribing them together
in the short term can help prevent ﬂares of psoriasis, and set-
tle acute episodes,202,203 but blood monitoring should be per-
formed more frequently to detect any hepatotoxicity.
14.0 Checklists for methotrexate prescribing
14.1 Prior to prescribing methotrexate
1
Take a full drug history.
2
Ensure
there
are
no
contraindications
to
MTX
use
(Sections 8.1 and 8.2, and Table 7).
3
Check results of baseline investigations (Section 9.4): (i)
FBC; (ii) U&E/eGFR; (iii) liver blood tests; (iv) hepatitis
B and C serology (Section 9.6); (v) HIV serology, espe-
cially in high-risk groups (Section 9.7); (vi) VZV serology
(if no history of varicella; Section 9.8); (vii) consider a
baseline chest X-ray.
4
Give special consideration to the following: (i) children
(Section 7.3); (ii) hepatic and renal impairment (Sections
9.6, 11.2 and 11.4); (iii) breastfeeding/pregnancy (Sec-
tion 9.3); (iv) VZV nonimmune – immunization required
(Section 12.1); (v) hepatitis B nonimmune – consider
immunization in at-risk groups (Section 9.6); (vi) posi-
tive HIV serology (Section 9.7).
5
When possible, formulate a plan for duration and even-
tual withdrawal of therapy.
6
Complete checklist of what to tell patients – prior to pre-
scribing MTX (see below).
7
Supply with a patient information leaﬂet (if not done pre-
viously) and record provision in case notes.
8
Supply with MTX patient monitoring booklet.
9
Arrange for patient to have pretreatment and ﬂu (annual)
and pneumococcal (5-yearly) vaccinations.
14.2 What to tell patients prior to prescribing
methotrexate
1
Explain
the
weekly
dosing
schedule
and
the
tablet
strength the patient is being prescribed, i.e. 25 mg (Sec-
tion 9.1).
2
Explain the onset of therapeutic beneﬁt of MTX may not
be apparent for 3–12 weeks.
3
Advise (i) against pregnancy; and (ii) the need for effec-
tive contraception (Section 9.3).
4
Emphasize the need for toxicity monitoring with regular
blood tests. Patients unable to comply should not be
given the drug (Section 10.3).
5
Explain if usage is for a licensed or unlicensed indication.
For unlicensed indications give a clear explanation of why
it is being prescribed (Section 7.0).
6
Advise patients to seek urgent medical attention if they
develop signs or symptoms of MTX toxicity, bone mar-
row suppression or liver impairment. Speciﬁcally, warn
patient about: (i) fever/ﬂu-like illness; (ii) mouth ulcera-
tion; (iii) tiredness; (iv) unexplained bruising or bleeding
of the gums; (v) nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain or
dark urine; (vi) breathlessness or cough.
7
Advise on the need for pneumococcal vaccine and a
yearly inﬂuenza vaccination (Section 12.1).
8
Advise patients about limiting alcohol intake (Section 9.2).
9
Warn about potential drug interactions (also detailed in
the patient information leaﬂet) (Section 11.7).
15.0 Economic and practical considerations
MTX is an inexpensive immunosuppressant drug that has
been used in the management of many skin diseases. It is
available in the form of tablets or via injection (as sodium
salt). The U.K. price quoted in the British National Formulary
(November 2015) for 24 9 25-mg tablets is £240, and
£292 for 48 tablets; the salt solution, in 2-mL vials, is
£600 for 25 mg mL1 and £262 for 25 mg mL1. Based
Table 7 Summary of contraindications
Contraindications (strength of recommendation C)
Relative contraindications
Absolute contraindications
Mild-to-moderate
renal impairment
Marrow dysfunction or failure
Mild-to-moderate
liver dysfunction
Patients on dialysis
History of hepatitis
B and C
Severe renal dysfunction
Gastritis
Severe hepatic dysfunction/cirrhosis
Alcohol excess
Women attempting to conceive,
pregnancy and breastfeeding
Patient unreliability
Immunodeﬁciency states (in some
cases relative)
Recent live vaccinations
Active tuberculosis or hepatitis
virus infections
Male partners of women
wishing to conceive
Pulmonary ﬁbrosis or signiﬁcantly
reduced lung function
Active peptic ulceration
Concurrent trimethoprim therapy
Hypersensitivity to methotrexate
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 37
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 16 ===
on these ﬁgures and an average dose of 20 mg per week, the
annual costs associated with the tablet form would be
£2531–£4160. All healthcare professionals initiating MTX
need to factor in additional costs associated with baseline and
regular
monitoring
investigations,
as
well
as
the
local
arrangements
and
logistics
for
such
investigations
(see
Table 8).
16.0 Future directions
MTX has been used in dermatology for > 50 years across
numerous indications. Despite this, there remain numerous
areas around its safe and effective use that could be optimized
further and better understood, including, but not limited to,
the following: (i) the mechanism of action of MTX in inﬂam-
matory skin disease; (ii) if a better pharmacokinetic under-
standing of the drug would lead to more directed dosing in
inﬂammatory skin disease; (iii) the true utility of MTX in
numerous skin conditions where RCT data are lacking, for
example blistering skin conditions and cutaneous sarcoidosis;
(iv) the optimal dosing schedule and route of administration
of MTX; (v) if genetic/epigenetic factors may inﬂuence safety
and efﬁcacy of MTX;204,205 (vi) progress with imaging and
biomarkers
to allow noninvasive
monitoring
for hepatic
ﬁbrosis.121
17.0 Recommended audit points
Clinicians prescribing MTX should use audit to evaluate their
care against predeﬁned standards. The following parameters
are suggested.
1
In the last 20 consecutive patients starting MTX therapy is
there clear documentation of a full drug history?
2
In the last 20 consecutive patients starting MTX therapy is
there clear documentation of the provision of written
patient information and a monitoring booklet?
3
In the last 20 consecutive patients starting MTX therapy is
there clear documentation of the results for baseline investi-
gations: (i) FBC; (ii) U&E; (iii) LFTs; (iv) hepatitis B and
C serology; (v) HIV serology; (vi) VZV serology, if no
history of varicella.
4
In the last 20 consecutive patients starting MTX therapy is
there clear documentation of compliance with monitoring
recommendations: (i) FBC; (ii) U&E; (iii) LFTs; (iv)
PIIINP.
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient, and
allow
benchmarking
between
different
units.
However,
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months.
Table 8 Dosage and delivery and monitoring recommendations for patients using methotrexate (MTX)
Dosage and delivery
and monitoring
Recommendation
Strength of
recommendation
Dosage
In healthy adults, consider starting MTX at doses of between 5 and 15 mg weekly
B
Those with renal impairment (see Table 4) may need lower doses, and could be
commenced on 25–50 mg weekly
Once remission is achieved, use the lowest maintenance dose to control the condition
Consider switching to alternative medication or use subcutaneous MTX if minimal efﬁcacy is
achieved within 12–16 weeks of starting treatment
Folic acid
Folic acid supplementation is recommended
A
Regular monitoring
The FBC, LFTs and U&E need to be repeated every 7–14 days for the ﬁrst month. Once the
therapy has been stabilized, the assessment can be performed every 2–3 months
C
Monitoring for
liver toxicity
Recommended baseline assessments include serum PIIINP, standard LFTs and consideration
of other risk factors for liver disease (e.g. fatty liver disease, alcohol, etc.)
C
Monitor LFTs, PIIINP at least every 3 months (patients with psoriasis only) and consider
onward referral for specialist advice if abnormal (see ‘Regular monitoring’ above),
speciﬁcally in relation to PIIINP
Onward referral for further specialist assessment (i) if PIIINP is > 8 mg L1 on two
occasions; or (ii) if three measurements are > 42 mg L1 in a 12-month period; or (iii)
if > 10 mg L1 on one occasion
The routine use of liver biopsy for monitoring MTX hepatotoxicity is not recommended
Monitoring for
pulmonary disease
Enquiry regarding history of pulmonary disease and respiratory symptoms should be made
at initiation of MTX and at subsequent visits
D
Chest X-ray, further investigations and/or respiratory referral are necessary if (i) symptoms
are present; (ii) patient is over 40 years of age and a cigarette smoker, or has a
background disease putting them at risk of respiratory complications (e.g. sarcoid)
Monitoring renal function
Reduction in MTX dosage should be considered in those with suboptimal renal function
D
Avoid MTX in patients on dialysis and with a creatinine clearance < 20 mL min1
FBC, full blood count; LFT, liver function test; U&E, urea and electrolytes; PIIINP, peptide of procollagen III.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
38 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 17 ===
18.0 Summary
MTX has been used for many indications in dermatology with
variable success. Evidence of high quality exists for advocating
its use in treating adults with psoriasis who require a systemic
therapy. For all other conditions the evidence is less robust,
but, nonetheless, MTX may have an important role in more
refractory atopic eczema and discoid lupus, for example. Fur-
ther well-designed studies are required for most other indica-
tions given below and collaborative multicentre experiences or
studies are required to understand how efﬁcacious MTX truly
is for these rare conditions. Over many decades the safety of
MTX has been established, but we are still looking for the
optimal assessment for potential liver toxicity and the required
dosing schedule of supplementary folic acid.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to Andrew Carmichael, Robert Chalmers
and Ben Walker for their contribution at the inception of
these guidelines, as well as to everyone who commented on
the draft during the consultation period.
References
1 Bell HK, Ormerod AD. Writing a British Association of Dermatol-
ogists clinical guideline: an update on the process and guidance
for authors. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:725–8.
2 Brouwers M, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in healthcare.
Can Med Assoc J 2010; 182:E839–42.
3 Warren RB, Chalmers RJ, Grifﬁths CE et al. Methotrexate for pso-
riasis in the era of biological therapy. Clin Exp Dermatol 2008;
33:551–4.
4 Chladek J, Martinkova J, Simkova M et al. Pharmacokinetics of
low doses of methotrexate in patients with psoriasis over the
early period of treatment. Eur J Clin Pharmacol 1998; 53:437–44.
5 Thomas S, Fisher KH, Snowden JA et al. Methotrexate is a Jak/
STAT pathway inhibitor. PLoS ONE 2015; 10:e0130078.
6 Flytstrom I, Stenberg B, Svensson A et al. Methotrexate vs. ciclo-
sporin in psoriasis: effectiveness, quality of life and safety. A ran-
domized controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2008; 158:116–21.
7 Heydendael VM, Spuls PI, Opmeer BC et al. Methotrexate versus
cyclosporine in moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis. N
Engl J Med 2003; 349:658–65.
8 Saurat JH, Stingl G, Dubertret L et al. Efﬁcacy and safety results
from the randomized controlled comparative study of adali-
mumab vs. methotrexate vs. placebo in patients with psoriasis
(CHAMPION). Br J Dermatol 2008; 158:558–66.
9 Reich K, Signorovitch J, Ramakrishnan K et al. Beneﬁt–risk analy-
sis of adalimumab versus methotrexate and placebo in the treat-
ment of moderate to severe psoriasis: comparison of adverse
event-free response days in the CHAMPION trial. J Am Acad Derma-
tol 2010; 63:1011–18.
10 Barker J, Hoffmann M, Wozel G et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of inﬂix-
imab vs. methotrexate in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque
psoriasis: results of an open-label, active-controlled, randomized
trial (RESTORE1). Br J Dermatol 2011; 165:1109–17.
11 Samarasekera E, Sawyer L, Parnham J et al. Assessment and man-
agement of psoriasis: summary of NICE guidance. BMJ 2012;
345:e6712.
12 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. CG153 psoriasis:
the assessment and management of psoriasis. Available at: https://
www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg153 (last accessed 28 June 2016).
13 Coates LC, Tillett W, Chandler D et al. The 2012 BSR and BHPR
guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis with biologics.
Rheumatology (Oxford) 2013; 52:1754–7.
14 Schram ME, Roekevisch E, Leeﬂang MM et al. A randomized trial
of methotrexate versus azathioprine for severe atopic eczema. J
Allergy Clin Immunol 2011; 128:353–9.
15 Syed AR, Aman S, Nadeem M et al. The efﬁcacy and safety of oral
methotrexate in chronic eczema. J Pak Assoc Dermatol 2009; 19:220–4.
16 Weatherhead SC, Wahie S, Reynolds NJ et al. An open-label,
dose-ranging study of methotrexate for moderate-to-severe adult
atopic eczema. Br J Dermatol 2007; 156:346–51.
17 Zoller L, Ramon M, Bergman R. Low dose methotrexate therapy
is effective in late-onset atopic dermatitis and idiopathic eczema.
Isr Med Assoc J 2008; 10:413–14.
18 Goujon C, Berard F, Dahel K et al. Methotrexate for the treatment
of adult atopic dermatitis. Eur J Dermatol 2006; 16:155–8.
19 Baughman RP, Winget DB, Lower EE. Methotrexate is steroid
sparing in acute sarcoidosis: results of a double blind, random-
ized trial. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis 2000; 17:60–6.
20 Veien NK, Brodthagen H. Cutaneous sarcoidosis treated with
methotrexate. Br J Dermatol 1977; 97:213–16.
21 van den Hoogen FH, Boerbooms AM, Swaak AJ et al. Comparison
of methotrexate with placebo in the treatment of systemic sclero-
sis: a 24 week randomized double-blind trial, followed by a
24 week observational trial. Br J Rheumatol 1996; 35:364–72.
22 Pope JE, Bellamy N, Seibold JR et al. A randomized, controlled
trial of methotrexate versus placebo in early diffuse scleroderma.
Arthritis Rheum 2001; 44:1351–8.
23 Kreuter A, Gambichler T, Breuckmann F et al. Pulsed high-dose
corticosteroids combined with low-dose methotrexate in severe
localized scleroderma. Arch Dermatol 2005; 141:847–52.
24 Seyger MM, van den Hoogen FH, de Boo T et al. Low-dose
methotrexate in the treatment of widespread morphea. J Am Acad
Dermatol 1998; 39:220–5.
25 Heilborn JD, Stahle-B€ackdahl M, Albertioni F et al. Low-dose oral
pulse methotrexate as monotherapy in elderly patients with bul-
lous pemphigoid. J Am Acad Dermatol 1999; 40:741–9.
26 Bara C, Maillard H, Briand N et al. Methotrexate for bullous pem-
phigoid: preliminary study. Arch Dermatol 2003; 139:1506–7.
27 Dereure O, Bessis D, Guillot B et al. Treatment of bullous pem-
phigoid by low-dose methotrexate associated with short-term
potent topical steroids: an open prospective study of 18 cases.
Arch Dermatol 2002; 138:1255–6.
28 Kjellman P, Eriksson H, Berg P. A retrospective analysis of
patients with bullous pemphigoid treated with methotrexate. Arch
Dermatol 2008; 144:612–16.
29 Paul MA, Jorizzo JL, Fleischer AB Jr et al. Low-dose methotrexate
treatment in elderly patients with bullous pemphigoid. J Am Acad
Dermatol 1994; 31:620–5.
30 Du-Thanh A, Merlet S, Maillard H et al. Combined treatment with
low-dose methotrexate and initial short-term superpotent topical
steroids in bullous pemphigoid: an open, multicentre, retrospec-
tive study. Br J Dermatol 2011; 165:1337–43.
31 Mashkilleyson N, Mashkilleyson AL. Mucous membrane manifesta-
tions of pemphigus vulgaris. A 25-year survey of 185 patients trea-
ted with corticosteroids or with combination of corticosteroids
with methotrexate or heparin. Acta Derm Venereol 1988; 68:413–21.
32 Baum S, Greenberger S, Samuelov L et al. Methotrexate is an
effective and safe adjuvant therapy for pemphigus vulgaris. Eur J
Dermatol 2012; 22:83–7.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 39
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 18 ===
33 Smith TJ, Bystryn JC. Methotrexate as an adjuvant treatment for
pemphigus vulgaris. Arch Dermatol 1999; 135:1275–6.
34 Tran KD, Wolverton JE, Soter NA. Methotrexate in the treatment
of pemphigus vulgaris: experience in 23 patients. Br J Dermatol
2013; 169:916–21.
35 Carneiro JR, Sato EI. Double blind, randomized, placebo con-
trolled clinical trial of methotrexate in systemic lupus erythe-
matosus. J Rheumatol 1999; 26:1275–9.
36 Wenzel J, Brahler S, Bauer R et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of
methotrexate
in
recalcitrant
cutaneous
lupus
erythematosus:
results of a retrospective study in 43 patients. Br J Dermatol 2005;
153:157–62.
37 Boehm IB, Boehm GA, Bauer R. Management of cutaneous lupus
erythematosus with low-dose methotrexate: indication for modu-
lation of inﬂammatory mechanisms. Rheumatol Int 1998; 18:59–
62.
38 Trautinger F, Knobler R, Willemze R et al. EORTC consensus rec-
ommendations for the treatment of mycosis fungoides/Sezary
syndrome. Eur J Cancer 2006; 42:1014–30.
39 Whittaker SJ, Marsden JR, Spittle M et al. Joint British Association
of Dermatologists and U.K. Cutaneous Lymphoma Group guideli-
nes for the management of primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.
Br J Dermatol 2003; 149:1095–107.
40 Zackheim
HS,
Kashani-Sabet
M,
McMillan
A.
Low-dose
methotrexate to treat mycosis fungoides: a retrospective study in
69 patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003; 49:873–8.
41 Zackheim HS, Kashani-Sabet M, Hwang ST. Low-dose methotrex-
ate to treat erythrodermic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: results in
twenty-nine patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 1996; 34:626–31.
42 Fujii M, Uehara J, Honma M et al. Primary cutaneous gam-
madelta-T-cell lymphoma treated with low-dose methotrexate
and narrowband ultraviolet B irradiation: report of a case with
testicular involvement. J Dermatol 2011; 38:368–72.
43 Kannangara AP, Levitan D, Fleischer AB Jr. Evaluation of the efﬁ-
cacy of the combination of oral bexarotene and methotrexate for
the treatment of early stage treatment-refractory cutaneous T-cell
lymphoma. J Dermatolog Treat 2009; 20:169–76.
44 Wantzin GL, Thomsen K. Methotrexate in lymphomatoid papulo-
sis. Br J Dermatol 1984; 111:93–5.
45 Yip L, Darling S, Orchard D. Lymphomatoid papulosis in chil-
dren: experience of ﬁve cases and the treatment efﬁcacy of
methotrexate. Australas J Dermatol 2011; 52:279–83.
46 Yazawa N, Kondo S, Kagaya M et al. Successful treatment of a
patient with lymphomatoid papulosis by methotrexate. J Dermatol
2001; 28:373–8.
47 Lynch PJ, Saied NK. Methotrexate treatment of pityriasis liche-
noides and lymphomatoid papulosis. Cutis 1979; 23:634–6.
48 Lopez-Ferrer A, Puig L, Moreno G et al. Pityriasis lichenoides
chronica induced by inﬂiximab, with response to methotrexate.
Eur J Dermatol 2010; 20:511–12.
49 Everett
MA.
Treatment
of
lymphomatoid
papulosis
with
methotrexate. Br J Dermatol 1984; 111:631.
50 Lazaridou E, Fotiadou C, Tsorova C et al. Resistant pityriasis liche-
noides et varioliformis acuta in a 3-year-old boy: successful treat-
ment with methotrexate. Int J Dermatol 2010; 49:215–17.
51 Egan CA, Rallis TM, Meadows KP et al. Low-dose oral methotrex-
ate treatment for recalcitrant palmoplantar pompholyx. J Am Acad
Dermatol 1999; 40:612–14.
52 Genadry R, Provost TT. Severe vulvar scarring in patients with
erosive lichen planus: a report of 4 cases. J Reprod Med 2006;
51:67–72.
53 Torti DC, Jorizzo JL, McCarty MA. Oral lichen planus: a case ser-
ies with emphasis on therapy. Arch Dermatol 2007; 143:511–15.
54 Click JW, Qureshi AA, Vleugels RA. Methotrexate for the treatment
of cutaneous dermatomyositis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2013; 68:1043–5.
55 Hornung T, Ko A, Tuting T et al. Efﬁcacy of low-dose methotrex-
ate in the treatment of dermatomyositis skin lesions. Clin Exp Der-
matol 2012; 37:139–42.
56 Upchurch KS, Heller K, Bress NM. Low-dose methotrexate ther-
apy for cutaneous vasculitis of rheumatoid arthritis. J Am Acad Der-
matol 1987; 17:355–9.
57 Jorizzo
JL,
White
WL,
Wise
CM
et al.
Low-dose
weekly
methotrexate for unusual neutrophilic vascular reactions: cuta-
neous polyarteritis nodosa and Behcet’s disease. J Am Acad Dermatol
1991; 24:973–8.
58 Farley Loftus R, Dadlani C, Wang N et al. Erythema elevatum diu-
tinum. Dermatol Online J 2008; 14:13.
59 Williams HC, Pembroke AC. Methotrexate in the treatment of
vasculitic cutaneous ulceration in rheumatoid arthritis. J R Soc Med
1989; 82:763.
60 Teitel AD. Treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum with methotrex-
ate. Cutis 1996; 57:326–8.
61 West EA, Warren RB, King CM. A case of recalcitrant necrobiosis
lipoidica responding to combined immunosuppression therapy. J
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2007; 21:830–1.
62 Plotner AN, Mutasim DF. Successful treatment of disseminated
granuloma annulare with methotrexate. Br J Dermatol 2010;
163:1123–4.
63 Joly P. The use of methotrexate alone or in combination with
low doses of oral corticosteroids in the treatment of alopecia
totalis or universalis. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006; 55:632–6.
64 Gach JE, Sabroe RA, Greaves MW et al. Methotrexate-responsive
chronic idiopathic urticaria: a report of two cases. Br J Dermatol
2001; 145:340–3.
65 Vilarinho C, Ventura F, Brito C. Methotrexate for refractory Hai-
ley-Hailey disease. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2010; 24:106.
66 D’Errico A, Bonciani D, Bonciolini V et al. Hailey-Hailey disease
treated with methotrexate. J Dermatol Case Rep 2012; 6:49–51.
67 Steen AE, Steen KH, Bauer R et al. Successful treatment of cuta-
neous Langerhans cell histiocytosis with low-dose methotrexate.
Br J Dermatol 2001; 145:137–40.
68 El-Khalawany MA, Hassan H, Shaaban D et al. Methotrexate versus
cyclosporine in the treatment of severe atopic dermatitis in chil-
dren: a multicenter experience from Egypt. Eur J Pediatr 2013;
172:351–6.
69 Rahman SI, Siegfried E, Flanagan KH et al. The methotrexate
polyglutamate assay supports the efﬁcacy of methotrexate for sev-
ere inﬂammatory skin disease in children. J Am Acad Dermatol
2014; 70:252–6.
70 Deo M, Yung A, Hill S et al. Methotrexate for treatment of atopic
dermatitis in children and adolescents. Int J Dermatol 2014;
53:1037–41.
71 Roberts H, Orchard D. Methotrexate is a safe and effective treat-
ment for paediatric discoid (nummular) eczema: a case series of
25 children. Australas J Dermatol 2010; 51:128–30.
72 Zulian F, Martini G, Vallongo C et al. Methotrexate in juvenile
localized scleroderma: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-con-
trolled trial. Arthritis Rheum 2011; 63:1998–2006.
73 Kaur I, Dogra S, De D et al. Systemic methotrexate treatment in
childhood psoriasis: further experience in 24 children from India.
Pediatr Dermatol 2008; 25:184–8.
74 Kumar B, Dhar S, Handa S et al. Methotrexate in childhood psori-
asis. Pediatr Dermatol 1994; 11:271–3.
75 Niakan E, Pitner SE, Whitaker JN et al. Immunosuppressive agents
in corticosteroid-refractory childhood dermatomyositis. Neurology
1980; 30:286–91.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
40 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 19 ===
76 Dogra S, Handa S, Kanwar AJ. Methotrexate in severe childhood
psoriasis. Pediatr Dermatol 2004; 21:283–4.
77 Dupuis LL, Koren G, Silverman ED et al. Inﬂuence of food on the
bioavailability of oral methotrexate in children. J Rheumatol 1995;
22:1570–3.
78 de Jager ME, de Jong EM, van de Kerkhof PC et al. Efﬁcacy and
safety of treatments for childhood psoriasis: a systematic literature
review. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010; 62:1013–30.
79 British Society for Paediatric and Adolescent Rheumatology.
Methotrexate use in paediatric rheumatology. Available at: https://
www.bspar.org.uk/DocStore/FileLibrary/PDFs/BSPAR%20Guide-
line%20for%20Methotrexate%202013.pdf (last accessed 28 June
2016).
80 Collin B, Vani A, Ogboli M et al. Methotrexate treatment in 13
children with severe plaque psoriasis. Clin Exp Dermatol 2009;
34:295–8.
81 Rajakulendran S, Gadsby K, Deighton C. Rheumatoid arthritis,
alcohol, leﬂunomide and methotrexate. Can changes to the BSR
guidelines for leﬂunomide and methotrexate on alcohol con-
sumption be justiﬁed? Musculoskeletal Care 2008; 6:233–45.
82 Malatjalian DA, Ross JB, Williams CN et al. Methotrexate hepato-
toxicity in psoriatics: report of 104 patients from Nova Scotia,
with analysis of risks from obesity, diabetes and alcohol con-
sumption during long term follow-up. Can J Gastroenterol 1996;
10:369–75.
83 Montaudie H, Sbidian E, Paul C et al. Methotrexate in psoriasis: a
systematic review of treatment modalities, incidence, risk factors
and monitoring of liver toxicity. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2011;
25:S12–18.
84 Visser K, Katchamart W, Loza E et al. Multinational evidence-
based recommendations for the use of methotrexate in rheumatic
disorders with a focus on rheumatoid arthritis: integrating sys-
tematic literature research and expert opinion of a broad interna-
tional panel of rheumatologists in the 3E Initiative. Ann Rheum Dis
2009; 68:1086–93.
85 Fransen J, Visser K, van Dongen H et al. Validity of the disease
activity score in undifferentiated arthritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken)
2010; 62:1392–8.
86 UKTIS.
Paternal
use
of
methotrexate.
Available
at:
http://
www.medicinesinpregnancy.org/bumps/monographs/PATER-
NAL-USE-OF-METHOTREXATE/ (last accessed 28 June 2016).
87 Sussman A, Leonard JM. Psoriasis, methotrexate, and oligosper-
mia. Arch Dermatol 1980; 116:215–17.
88 Sukhotnik I, Nativ O, Roitburt A et al. Methotrexate induces germ
cell apoptosis and impairs spermatogenesis in a rat. Pediatr Surg Int
2013; 29:179–84.
89 Beghin D, Cournot MP, Vauzelle C et al. Paternal exposure to
methotrexate and pregnancy outcomes. J Rheumatol 2011; 38:628–32.
90 Weber-Schoendorfer C, Hoeltzenbein M, Wacker E et al. No evi-
dence for an increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcome after
paternal low-dose methotrexate: an observational cohort study.
Rheumatology (Oxford) 2014; 53:757–63.
91 Wallenius M, Lie E, Daltveit AK et al. Brief report: no excess risks in
offspring with paternal preconception exposure to disease-modify-
ing antirheumatic drugs. Arthritis Rheumatol 2015; 67:296–301.
92 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Idiopathic pul-
monary ﬁbrosis overview. Available at: http://pathways.nice.org.
uk/pathways/idiopathic-pulmonary-ﬁbrosis (last accessed 28 June
2016).
93 British Thoracic Group. Guideline for non-CF bronchiectasis.
Available
at:
https://www.brit-thoracic.org.uk/document-
library/clinical-information/bronchiectasis/bts-guideline-for-non-
cf-bronchiectasis/ (last accessed 28 June 2016).
94 Gardam MA, Keystone EC, Menzies R et al. Anti-tumour necrosis
factor agents and tuberculosis risk: mechanisms of action and
clinical management. Lancet Infect Dis 2003; 3:148–55.
95 Doherty SD, Van Voorhees A, Lebwohl MG et al. National Psoria-
sis Foundation consensus statement on screening for latent tuber-
culosis infection in patients with psoriasis treated with systemic
and biologic agents. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008; 59:209–17.
96 Tan J, Zhou J, Zhao P et al. Prospective study of HBV reactivation
risk in rheumatoid arthritis patients who received conventional
disease-modifying
antirheumatic
drugs.
Clin
Rheumatol
2012;
31:1169–75.
97 Maurer
TA,
Zackheim
HS,
Tuffanelli
L
et al.
The
use
of
methotrexate for treatment of psoriasis in patients with HIV
infection. J Am Acad Dermatol 1994; 31:372–5.
98 Duvic M, Crane MM, Conant M et al. Zidovudine improves psori-
asis in human immunodeﬁciency virus-positive males. Arch Derma-
tol 1994; 130:447–51.
99 Fischer T, Schworer H, Vente C et al. Clinical improvement of
HIV-associated psoriasis parallels a reduction of HIV viral load
induced by effective antiretroviral therapy. AIDS 1999; 13:628–
9.
100 Mamkin I, Mamkin A, Ramanan SV. HIV-associated psoriasis. Lan-
cet Infect Dis 2007; 7:496.
101 Menon K, Van Voorhees AS, Bebo BF et al. Psoriasis in patients
with HIV infection: from the medical board of the National Pso-
riasis Foundation. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010; 62:291–9.
102 Department of Health. Contraindications and special considerations:
the green book, chapter 6. Available at: https://www.gov.uk/gov-
ernment/publications/contraindications-and-special-considera-
tions-the-green-book-chapter-6 (last accessed 28 June 2016).
103 Chakravarty K, McDonald H, Pullar T et al. BSR/BHPR guideline
for disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy in
consultation with the British Association of Dermatologists.
Rheumatology 2008; 47:924–5.
104 Kalb RE, Strober B, Weinstein G et al. Methotrexate and psoriasis:
2009 National Psoriasis Foundation Consensus Conference. J Am
Acad Dermatol 2009; 60:824–37.
105 Chiaravalloti AJ, Laduca JR. Melanoma screening by means of
complete skin exams for all patients in a dermatology practice
reduces the thickness of primary melanomas at diagnosis. J Clin
Aesthet Dermatol 2014; 7:18–22.
106 Malerba M, Gisondi P, Radaeli A et al. Plasma homocysteine and
folate levels in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. Br J Dermatol
2006; 155:1165v9.
107 Ortiz Z, Shea B, Suarez Almazor M et al. Folic acid and folinic acid
for reducing side effects in patients receiving methotrexate for
rheumatoid arthritis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000; 5:CD000951.
108 Grifﬁth SM, Fisher J, Clarke S et al. Do patients with rheumatoid
arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily
need to continue folic acid supplements long term? Rheumatology
(Oxford) 2000; 39:1102–9.
109 Shiroky JB, Neville C, Esdaile JM et al. Low-dose methotrexate
with leucovorin (folinic acid) in the management of rheumatoid
arthritis. Results of a multicenter randomized, double-blind, pla-
cebo-controlled trial. Arthritis Rheum 1993; 36:795–803.
110 Maybury CM, Jabbar-Lopez ZK, Wong T et al. Methotrexate and
liver ﬁbrosis in people with psoriasis: a systematic review of
observational studies. Br J Dermatol 2014; 171:17–29.
111 Prey S, Paul C. Effect of folic or folinic acid supplementation on
methotrexate-associated safety and efﬁcacy in inﬂammatory dis-
ease: a systematic review. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:622–8.
112 Menter A, Korman NJ, Elmets CA et al. Guidelines of care for the
management
of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: section 4.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 41
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 20 ===
Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis
with traditional systemic agents. J Am Acad Dermatol 2009; 61:451–
85.
113 Howlett DC, Drinkwater KJ, Lawrence D et al. Findings of the UK
national audit evaluating image-guided or image-assisted liver
biopsy. Part II. Minor and major complications and procedure-
related mortality. Radiology 2013; 266:226–35.
114 Berends MA, van Oijen MG, Snoek J et al. Reliability of the Roe-
nigk classiﬁcation of liver damage after methotrexate treatment
for psoriasis: a clinicopathologic study of 160 liver biopsy speci-
mens. Arch Dermatol 2007; 143:1515–19.
115 West SG. Methotrexate hepatotoxicity. Rheum Dis Clin North Am
1997; 23:883–915.
116 Whiting-O’Keefe QE, Fye KH, Sack KD. Methotrexate and histo-
logic hepatic abnormalities: a meta-analysis. Am J Med 1991;
90:711–16.
117 Boffa MJ, Chalmers RJ, Haboubi NY et al. Sequential liver biopsies
during long-term methotrexate treatment for psoriasis: a reap-
praisal. Br J Dermatol 1995; 133:774–8.
118 Boffa MJ, Smith A, Chalmers RJ et al. Serum type III procollagen
aminopeptide for assessing liver damage in methotrexate-treated
psoriatic patients. Br J Dermatol 1996; 135:538–44.
119 Zachariae H, Heickendorff L, Sogaard H. The value of amino-
terminal propeptide of type III procollagen in routine screening
for methotrexate-induced liver ﬁbrosis: a 10-year follow-up. Br J
Dermatol 2001; 144:100–3.
120 Maurice PD, Maddox AJ, Green CA et al. Monitoring patients on
methotrexate: hepatic ﬁbrosis not seen in patients with normal
serum assays of aminoterminal peptide of type III procollagen. Br
J Dermatol 2005; 152:451–8.
121 Barker J, Horn EJ, Lebwohl M et al. Assessment and management
of methotrexate hepatotoxicity in psoriasis patients: report from
a consensus conference to evaluate current practice and identify
key questions toward optimizing methotrexate use in the clinic. J
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2011; 25:758–64.
122 Maybury CM, Samarasekera E, Douiri A et al. Diagnostic accuracy
of noninvasive markers of liver ﬁbrosis in patients with psoriasis
taking methotrexate: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J
Dermatol 2014; 170:1237–47.
123 Chambers SA, Isenberg D. Anti-B cell therapy (Rituximab) in the
treatment of autoimmune diseases. Lupus 2005; 14:210–14.
124 Pathirana D, Ormerod AD, Saiag P et al. European S3-guidelines
on the systemic treatment of psoriasis vulgaris. J Eur Acad Dermatol
Venereol 2009; 23:1–70.
125 Pavlov CS, Casazza G, Nikolova D et al. Transient elastography for
diagnosis of stages of hepatic ﬁbrosis and cirrhosis in people
with alcoholic liver disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2015; 1:
CD010542.
126 Laharie D, Seneschal J, Schaeverbeke T et al. Assessment of liver
ﬁbrosis with transient elastography and FibroTest in patients trea-
ted with methotrexate for chronic inﬂammatory diseases: a case–
control study. J Hepatol 2010; 53:1035–40.
127 O’Connor GT, Olmstead EM, Zug K et al. Detection of hepatotoxi-
city associated with methotrexate therapy for psoriasis. Arch Der-
matol 1989; 125:1209–17.
128 Martyn-Simmons CL, Rosenberg WM, Cross R et al. Validity of
noninvasive markers of methotrexate-induced hepatotoxicity: a
retrospective cohort study. Br J Dermatol 2014; 171:267–73.
129 Roubille C, Haraoui B. Interstitial lung diseases induced or exacer-
bated by DMARDS and biologic agents in rheumatoid arthritis: a
systematic literature review. Semin Arthritis Rheum 2014; 43:613–26.
130 Jakubovic BD, Donovan A, Webster PM et al. Methotrexate-
induced pulmonary toxicity. Can Respir J 2013; 20:153–5.
131 Nast A, Boehncke WH, Mrowietz U et al. S3 – guidelines on the
treatment of psoriasis vulgaris (English version). Update. J Dtsch
Dermatol Ges 2012; 10 (Suppl. 2):S1–95.
132 Rondon F, Mendez O, Spinel N et al. Methotrexate-induced pul-
monary toxicity in psoriatic arthritis (PsA): case presentation and
literature review. Clin Rheumatol 2011; 30:1379–84.
133 Langleben A, Hollomby D, Hand R. Case report: management of
methotrexate toxicity in an anephric patient. Clin Invest Med 1982;
5:129–32.
134 Chladek J, Grim J, Martinkova J et al. Pharmacokinetics and phar-
macodynamics of low-dose methotrexate in the treatment of pso-
riasis. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2002; 54:147–56.
135 Rheumatoid Arthritis Clinical Trial Archive Group. The effect of
age and renal function on the efﬁcacy and toxicity of methotrex-
ate in rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 1995; 22:218–23.
136 Cheung KK, Chow KM, Szeto CC et al. Fatal pancytopenia in a
hemodialysis patient after treatment with low-dose methotrexate.
J Clin Rheumatol 2009; 15:177–80.
137 Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) CKD Work
Group. KDIGO clinical practice guideline for the evaluation and
management of chronic kidney disease. Kidney Int Suppl 2013; 3:1–
150.
138 Le Boedec M, Marhadour T, Devauchelle-Pensec V et al. Baseline
laboratory test abnormalities are common in early arthritis but
rarely contraindicate methotrexate: study of three cohorts (ESPOIR,
VErA, and Brittany). Semin Arthritis Rheum 2013; 42:474–81.
139 Seneschal J, Heliot HI, Taieb A. Pancytopenia induced by low-
dose methotrexate in a haemodialysis patient treated for bullous
pemphigoid. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2007; 21:135–6.
140 Kalantzis A, Marshman Z, Falconer DT et al. Oral effects of low-
dose methotrexate treatment. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral
Radiol Endod 2005; 100:52–62.
141 Duhra P. Treatment of gastrointestinal symptoms associated with
methotrexate therapy for psoriasis. J Am Acad Dermatol 1993;
28:466–9.
142 Lorenzi AR, Johnson AH, Gough A. Daily folate supplementation
is adequate prophylaxis against methotrexate-induced nausea and
vomiting and avoids the need for expensive anti-emetic prescrip-
tion. Rheumatology 2000; 39:812–13.
143 van Ede AE, Laan RF, Rood MJ et al. Effect of folic or folinic acid
supplementation on the toxicity and efﬁcacy of methotrexate in
rheumatoid arthritis: a forty-eight week, multicenter, random-
ized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Arthritis Rheum 2001;
44:1515–24.
144 Salim A, Tan E, Ilchyshyn A et al. Folic acid supplementation during
treatment of psoriasis with methotrexate: a randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled trial. Br J Dermatol 2006; 154:1169–74.
145 Walker SL, Kirby B, Grifﬁths CEM et al. The use of oral ondanse-
tron for severe methotrexate-induced nausea in patients. Br J Der-
matol 2002; 147:S38.
146 Blanco R, Gonzalez-Gay MA, Garcıa-Porrua C et al. Ondansetron
prevents refractory and severe methotrexate-induced nausea in
rheumatoid arthritis. Br J Rheumatol 1998; 37:590–2.
147 Devlin J, Wagstaff K, Arthur V et al. Granisetron (Kytril) sup-
presses
methotrexate-induced
nausea
and
vomiting
among
patients with inﬂammatory arthritis and is superior to prochlor-
perazine (Stemetil). Rheumatology 1999; 38:280–2.
148 Chiaravalloti AJ, Strober BE. The use of self-administered subcuta-
neous methotrexate for the treatment of psoriasis. J Drugs Dermatol
2014; 13:929–31.
149 Nyfors A, Jensen H. Frequency of malignant neoplasms in 248
long-term methotrexate-treated psoriatics. A preliminary study.
Dermatologica 1983; 167:260–1.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
42 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 21 ===
150 Gelfand JM, Berlin J, Van Voorhees A et al. Lymphoma rates are
low but increased in patients with psoriasis: results from a popu-
lation-based cohort study in the United Kingdom. Arch Dermatol
2003; 139:1425–9.
151 Stern RS. Lymphoma risk in psoriasis: results of the PUVA fol-
low-up study. Arch Dermatol 2006; 142:1132–5.
152 Harris N, Swerdlow SH. Methotrexate-associated lymphoprolifera-
tive disorders. In: Tumours of Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues (Jaffe
ESHN, Stein H, Vardiman JW, eds). Lyon: IARC Press, 2001;
270–1.
153 Burton JL. Drug interactions with methotrexate. Br J Dermatol
1991; 124:300–1.
154 Bourre-Tessier J, Haraoui B. Methotrexate drug interactions in
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review. J
Rheumatol 2010; 37:1416–21.
155 Singh RR, Malaviya AN, Pandey JN et al. Fatal interaction between
methotrexate and naproxen. Lancet 1986; 1:1390.
156 Stewart CF, Evans WE. Drug–drug interactions with antirheumatic
agents: review of selected clinically important interactions. J
Rheumatol Suppl 1990; 22:16v23.
157 Getov I, Dimitrova Z, Petkova V. Low dose treatment with
methotrexate-adverse drug reactions survey. Boll Chim Farm 2000;
139:153–8.
158 Karim A, Tolbert DS, Hunt TL et al. Celecoxib, a speciﬁc COX-2
inhibitor, has no signiﬁcant effect on methotrexate pharmacoki-
netics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 1999;
26:2539–43.
159 NICE. NSAIDs – prescribing issues. Available at: http://cks.ni-
ce.org.uk/nsaids-prescribing-issues#!scenario (last accessed 28
June 2016).
160 Groenendal H, Rampen FH. Methotrexate and trimethoprim-sul-
phamethoxazole – a potentially hazardous combination. Clin Exp
Dermatol 1990; 15:358–60.
161 Thomas MH, Gutterman LA. Methotrexate toxicity in a patient
receiving
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
J
Rheumatol
1986;
13:440–1.
162 Maricic M, Davis M, Gall EP. Megaloblastic pancytopenia in a
patient receiving concurrent methotrexate and trimethoprim-sul-
famethoxazole treatment. Arthritis Rheum 1986; 29:133–5.
163 Steuer A, Gumpel JM. Methotrexate and trimethoprim: a fatal
interaction. Br J Rheumatol 1998; 37:105–6.
164 Ng HW, Macfarlane AW, Graham RM et al. Near fatal drug inter-
actions with methotrexate given for psoriasis. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed)
1987; 295:752–3.
165 Titier K, Lagrange F, Pehourcq F et al. Pharmacokinetic interaction
between high-dose methotrexate and oxacillin. Ther Drug Monit
2002; 24:570–2.
166 Ronchera CL, Hernandez T, Peris JE et al. Pharmacokinetic interac-
tion between high-dose methotrexate and amoxycillin. Ther Drug
Monit 1993; 15:375–9.
167 Tortajada-Ituren JJ, Ordovas-Baines JP, Llopis-Salvia P et al. High-
dose methotrexate-doxycycline interaction. Ann Pharmacother 1999;
33:804–8.
168 Dalle JH, Auvrignon A, Vassal G et al. Interaction between
methotrexate and ciproﬂoxacin. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2002;
24:321–2.
169 Kapetanovic
MC,
Saxne
T,
Sjoholm
A
et al.
Inﬂuence
of
methotrexate,
TNF
blockers
and
prednisolone
on
antibody
responses to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in patients
with rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatology 2006; 45:106–11.
170 Sany J, Anaya JM, Canovas F et al. Inﬂuence of methotrexate on
the
frequency
of
postoperative
infectious
complications
in
patients with rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 1993; 20:1129–32.
171 Grennan DM, Gray J, Loudon J et al. Methotrexate and early post-
operative complications in patients with rheumatoid arthritis
undergoing elective orthopaedic surgery. Ann Rheum Dis 2001;
60:214–17.
172 Moisa A, Fritz P, Benz D et al. Iatrogenically-related, fatal
methotrexate intoxication: a series of four cases. Forensic Sci Int
2006; 156:154–7.
173 Pavy S, Constantin A, Pham T et al. Methotrexate therapy for
rheumatoid arthritis: clinical practice guidelines based on published
evidence and expert opinion. Joint Bone Spine 2006; 73:388–95.
174 Agarwal KK, Nath AK, Thappa DM. Methotrexate toxicity present-
ing as ulceration of psoriatic plaques: a report of two cases. Indian
J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2008; 74:481–4.
175 Sinicina I, Mayr B, Mall G et al. Deaths following methotrexate
overdoses by medical staff. J Rheumatol 2005; 32:2009–11.
176 Deeming GM, Collingwood J, Pemberton MN. Methotrexate and
oral ulceration. Br Dent J 2005; 198:83–5.
177 Toxbase. UNPIS. Available at: http://www.toxbase.org/Poisons-
Index-A-Z/M-Products/Methotrexate (last accessed 30 June 2016).
178 Primka EJ, Camisa C. Methotrexate-induced toxic epidermal
necrolysis in a patient with psoriasis. J Am Acad Dermatol 1997;
36:815–18.
179 Boerbooms AM, Kerstens PJ, van Loenhout JW et al. Infections
during low-dose methotrexate treatment in rheumatoid arthritis.
Semin Arthritis Rheum 1995; 24:411–21.
180 LeMense GP, Sahn SA. Opportunistic infection during treatment
with low dose methotrexate. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994;
150:258–60.
181 Witty LA, Steiner F, Curfman M et al. Disseminated histoplasmosis
in patients receiving low-dose methotrexate therapy for psoriasis.
Arch Dermatol 1992; 128:91–3.
182 Warren RB, Brown BC, Lavery D et al. Adalimumab for psoriasis:
practical experience in a U.K. tertiary referral centre. Br J Dermatol
2010; 163:859–62.
183 Warren RB, Brown BC, Lavery D et al. Biologic therapies for pso-
riasis: practical experience in a U.K. tertiary referral centre. Br J
Dermatol 2009; 160:162–9.
184 Driessen RJB, Berends MAM, Boezeman JB et al. Psoriasis treat-
ment with etanercept and efalizumab: clinical strategies inﬂuenc-
ing treatment outcome. Br J Dermatol 2008; 158:1098–106.
185 Zachariae C, Mork NJ, Reunala T et al. The combination of etan-
ercept and methotrexate increases the effectiveness of treatment
in active psoriasis despite inadequate effect of methotrexate ther-
apy. Acta Derm Venereol 2008; 88:495–501.
186 Kamili QU, Miner A, Hapa A et al. Inﬂiximab treatment for psori-
asis in 120 patients on therapy for a minimum of one year: a
review. J Drugs Dermatol 2011; 10:539–44.
187 Laws PM, Downs AM, Parslew R et al. Practical experience of
ustekinumab in the treatment of psoriasis: experience from a
multicentre, retrospective case cohort study across the U.K. and
Ireland. Br J Dermatol 2012; 166:189–95.
188 Mrowieitz U, de Jong EM, Kragballe K et al. A consensus report
on appropriate treatment optimization and transitioning in the
management of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. J Eur Acad
Dermatol Venereol 2014; 28:438–53.
189 Jani M, Barton A, Warren RB et al. The role of DMARDs in reduc-
ing the immunogenicity of TNF inhibitors in chronic inﬂamma-
tory diseases. Rheumatology 2014; 53:213–22.
190 Fraser
AD,
van
Kuijk
AW,
Westhovens
R
et al.
A
ran-
domised, double blind, placebo controlled, multicentre trial
of combination therapy with methotrexate plus ciclosporin
in
patients
with
active
psoriatic
arthritis.
Ann
Rheum
Dis
2005; 64:859–64.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al. 43
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 22 ===
191 Clark CM, Kirby B, Morris AD et al. Combination treatment with
methotrexate and cyclosporin for severe recalcitrant psoriasis. Br J
Dermatol 1999; 141:279–82.
192 Mazzanti G, Coloni L, De Sabbata G et al. Methotrexate and
cyclosporin combined therapy in severe psoriatic arthritis. A pilot
study. Acta Derm Venereol Suppl (Stockh) 1994; 186:116–17.
193 Asawanonda
P,
Nateetongrungsak
Y.
Methotrexate
plus
narrowband UVB phototherapy versus narrowband UVB pho-
totherapy alone in the treatment of plaque-type psoriasis: a ran-
domized, placebo-controlled study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006;
54:1013–18.
194 Fitzsimons CP, Long J, MacKie RM. Synergistic carcinogenic
potential of methotrexate and PUVA in psoriasis. Lancet 1983;
1:235–6.
195 Khan AJ, Marghoob AA, Prestia AE et al. Methotrexate and the
photodermatitis reactivation reaction: a case report and review of
the literature. Cutis 2000; 66:379–82.
196 Westwick TJ, Sheretz EF, McCarley D et al. Delayed reactivation of
sunburn by methotrexate: sparing of chronically sun-exposed
skin. Cutis 1987; 39:49–51.
197 Korossy KS, Hood AF. Methotrexate reactivation of sunburn reac-
tion. Arch Dermatol 1981; 117:310–11.
198 Vogler WR, Huguley CM, Kerr W. Toxicity and antitumor effect of
divided doses of methotrexate. Arch Intern Med 1965; 115:285–93.
199 LeVine MJ. Erythema resulting from suberythemogenic doses of
ultraviolet
radiation
and
methotrexate.
Arch
Dermatol
1981;
117:656–8.
200 Beck HI, Foged EK. Toxic hepatitis due to combination therapy
with methotrexate and etretinate in psoriasis. Dermatologica 1983;
167:94–6.
201 Tuyp E, MacKie RM. Combination therapy for psoriasis with
methotrexate and etretinate. J Am Acad Dermatol 1986; 14:70–3.
202 Rosenbaum MM, Roenigk HH Jr. Treatment of generalized pustu-
lar psoriasis with etretinate (Ro 10-9359) and methotrexate. J Am
Acad Dermatol 1984; 10:357–61.
203 Adams JD. Concurrent methotrexate and etretinate therapy for
psoriasis. Arch Dermatol 1983; 119:793.
204 Warren RB, Smith RL, Campalani E et al. Outcomes of methotrex-
ate therapy for psoriasis and relationship to genetic polymor-
phisms. Br J Dermatol 2009; 160:438–41.
205 Warren RB, Smith RL, Campalani E et al. Genetic variation in
efﬂux transporters inﬂuences outcome to methotrexate therapy in
patients with psoriasis. J Invest Dermatol 2008; 128:1925–9.
206 British Society of Rheumatology. National guidelines for the moni-
toring of second-line drugs. Available at: http://www.rheumatol-
ogy.org.uk/includes/documents/cm_docs/2009/m/monitor-
ing_second_line_drugs.pdf (last accessed 28 June 2016).
Appendix 1
Levels of evidence
Level of
evidencea
Type of evidence
1++
High-quality meta-analyses, systematic reviews of
RCTs, or RCTs with a very low risk of bias
1+
Well-conducted meta-analyses, systematic reviews
of RCTs, or RCTs with a low risk of bias
1
Meta-analyses, systematic reviews of RCTs, or RCTs
with a high risk of bias
(continued)
Appendix 1 (continued)
Level of
evidencea
Type of evidence
2++
High-quality systematic reviews of case–control or
cohort studies. High-quality case–control or cohort
studies with a very low risk of confounding, bias or
chance, and a high probability that the relationship is
causal
2+
Well-conducted case–control or cohort studies with a
low risk of confounding, bias or chance, and a
moderate probability that the relationship is causal
2
Case–control or cohort studies with a high risk of
confounding, bias or chance and a signiﬁcant risk
that the relationship is not causal
3
Nonanalytical studies (e.g. case reports, case series)
4
Expert opinion, formal consensus
RCT, randomized controlled trial. aStudies with a level of evi-
dence ‘’ should not be used as a basis for making a recom-
mendation.
Strength of recommendation
Class
Evidence
A
At least one meta-analysis, systematic review or RCT
rated as 1++, and directly applicable to the target
population
A systematic review of RCTs or a body of evidence
consisting principally of studies rated as 1+, directly
applicable to the target population and demonstrating
overall consistency of results
Evidence drawn from a NICE technology appraisal
B
A body of evidence including studies rated as 2++,
directly applicable to the target population and
demonstrating overall consistency of results
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 1++ or 1+
C
A body of evidence including studies rated as 2+,
directly applicable to the target population and
demonstrating overall consistency of results
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2++
D
Evidence level 3 or 4
Extrapolated evidence from studies rated as 2+
Formal consensus
D (GPP)
A good practice point (GPP) is a recommendation for
best practice based on the experience of the guideline
development group
RCT, randomized controlled trial; NICE, National Institute for
Health and Care Excellence.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Data S1. Literature search strategies.
© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2016) 175, pp23–44
44 BAD guidelines for prescribing of methotrexate for skin disease 2016, R.B. Warren et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/175/1/23/6616828 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 23 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
