=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists and British
Photodermatology Group guidelines for narrowband
ultraviolet B phototherapy 2022*
Victoria Goulden,1 Tsui C. Ling,2 Parastoo Babakinejad,3 Robert Dawe,4 Ewan Eadie iD ,4 Hiva Fassihi iD ,5
Adam Fityan iD ,6 Trish Garibaldinos,5 Sally H. Ibbotson iD ,4 Ljuba Novakovic,5 7 Emma Rush,8
Sophie C. Weatherhead iD ,3 Heather Whitehouse iD ,1 Maria Hashme,9 M. Firouz Mohd Mustapa iD ,9
and Lesley S. Exton iD 9 on behalf of the British Association of Dermatologists’ Clinical Standards Unit
1Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, LS1 3EX, UK
2Photobiology Unit, Dermatology Centre, University of Manchester and Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, M6 8HD, UK
3Royal Victoria Inﬁrmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 4LP, UK
4Scottish Photobiology Service, Photobiology Unit, University of Dundee & NHS Tayside, Ninewells Hospital & Medical School, Dundee, DD1 9SY, UK
5Department of Photodermatology, St John’s Institute of Dermatology, Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, London, SE1 9RT, UK
6University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, SO10 6YD, UK
7Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Lewisham & Greenwich NHS Trust, London, SE18 4QH, UK
8Vitiligo Support UK, London, UK
9Clinical Standards Unit, British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, London, W1T 5HQ, UK
Correspondence
Victoria Goulden.
Emails: victoria.goulden@nhs.net, guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
7 May 2021
V.G. and T.C.L. share ﬁrst authorship.
Produced in 1997 by the British Photodermatology Group and the British Association
of Dermatologists (BAD). Reviewed and updated 2004, 2022.
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines subcommit-
tee. Members of the Clinical Standards Unit who have contributed are N.J. Levell
(Chair, Therapy & Guidelines subcommittee), B. McDonald (BAD Assistant Honorary
Secretary 2019–21), S.L. Chua, A. Daunton, H. Frow, P. Laws, I. Nasr, A. Theri-
anou, M. Hashme (Information Scientist), Z. Kiaee (Guideline Research Fellow), L.S.
Exton (Senior Guideline Research Fellow) and M.F. Mohd Mustapa (Director Clinical
Standards).
*Plain language summary available online
DOI 10.1111/bjd.21669
NICE has renewed accreditation of the process used by the Bri-
tish Association of Dermatologists to produce clinical guide-
lines. The renewed accreditation is valid until 31 May 2026
and applies to guidance produced using the processes described
in ‘Updated guidance for writing a British Association of Der-
matologists clinical guideline: the adoption of the GRADE
methodology 2016’. The original accreditation term began on
12 May 2010. More information on accreditation can be
viewed at www.nice.org.uk/accreditation.
Linked Comment: P. Wolf. Br J Dermatol 2022; 187:285–286.
1. Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the use of narrowband
ultraviolet B (NB-UVB) phototherapy in adults, young people
and children. The document aims to
•
offer an appraisal of all relevant literature up to 18 Febru-
ary 2021, focusing on any key developments;
•
address important, practical clinical questions relating to
the primary guideline objective;
•
provide guideline recommendations and, if appropriate,
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in the clinic and at
home (see Section 3), in addition to an updated patient infor-
mation leaﬂet (available on the BAD Skin Health Information
website:
https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-
treatments).
2. Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology.1 Further information can be found
in Appendix T (see Supporting Information) with reference to
the AGREE II instrument (www.agreetrust.org)2 and GRADE
(http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org).
Recommendations
were developed for implementation in the UK National Health
Service (NHS).
The Guideline Development Group (GDG) established sev-
eral clinical questions pertinent to the scope of the guideline
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
295
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
and a set of outcome measures of importance to patients,
ranked according to the GRADE methodology (see Section 2.1
and Appendix A; see Supporting Information). The GDG con-
sisted of 10 consultant dermatologists, a medical physicist, a
phototherapy nursing sister, three patient representatives and a
technical team (consisting of an information scientist, a guide-
line research fellow and a project manager providing method-
ological and technical support).
A systematic literature search of the PubMed, MEDLINE,
Embase, Cochrane and AMED databases was conducted to
identify key articles on NB-UVB to 18 February 2021. The
search terms and strategies are detailed in Appendix V (see
Supporting Information). Additional references relevant to the
topic were also isolated from citations in the reviewed litera-
ture and the previous editions of the guidelines.3,4 Data
extraction and critical appraisal, data synthesis, evidence sum-
maries, lists of excluded studies and the PRISMA diagram were
prepared by the technical team (Appendixes B–S; see Support-
ing Information). The overall certainty of the evidence from
the included studies was graded according to the GRADE sys-
tem (high, moderate, low or very low certainty). An addi-
tional targeted literature search (for randomized controlled
trials and systematic reviews) was conducted on 29 March
2022; no new publications were identiﬁed that would have
materially affected the recommendations (Appendix V).
The recommendations are based when possible on evidence
drawn from systematic reviews of the literature pertaining to
the clinical questions identiﬁed, following discussions with
the entire GDG and factoring in all four factors that would
affect its strength rating according to the GRADE approach
(i.e. balance between desirable and undesirable effects, overall
certainty of the evidence, patient values and preferences, and
resource allocation). All GDG members contributed towards
drafting and/or reviewing the narratives and information in
the guideline and Supporting Information documents. When
there was insufﬁcient evidence from the literature, informal
consensus was reached based on the specialist clinical experi-
ence of the consultants on the GDG.
The Supporting Information contains the summary of ﬁnd-
ings with forest plots (Appendix B), tables Linking the Evi-
dence To the Recommendations (LETR) (Appendix C), GRADE
evidence proﬁles indicating the overall certainty of the evi-
dence (Appendix D), summaries of the included studies and
narrative ﬁndings for noncomparative studies (Appendixes E–
P), the PRISMA ﬂow diagram (Appendix Q), critical appraisal
of the included systematic reviews (Appendix R) and a list of
excluded studies (Appendix S). The strength of recommenda-
tion is expressed by the wording and symbols shown in
Table 1.
2.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established two clinical questions pertinent to the
scope of the guideline. See Appendix A for the full review
protocol.
Review Question 1. In people with skin diseases (including, but
not limited to psoriasis, vitiligo, eczema, hand and foot dermatoses, lichen
planus, mycosis fungoides, pityriasis lichenoides, subacute and nodular prurigo,
pruritus, chronic spontaneous urticaria, alopecia areata, progressive macular
hypomelanosis and morphoea/localized scleroderma), what are the clinical
effectiveness/efﬁcacy, safety and tolerability of NB-UVB pho-
totherapy, as monotherapy or in combination with another
treatment, compared with other light-based therapy including
the excimer laser and lamp, topical therapy, retinoid therapy,
conventional systemic immunosuppression or immunomodu-
lation, biological therapy, placebo, no treatment or NB-UVB
in combination with a different treatment?
Review Question 2. In people with photodermatoses (including
polymorphic light eruption, solar urticaria, actinic prurigo, chronic actinic der-
matitis, hydroa vacciniforme, erythropoietic protoporphyria and photoaggravated
Table 1 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbol
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an
intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, e.g. ‘use’,
‘provide’, ‘take’, ‘investigate’
etc.)
↑↑
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients would
choose the intervention while only a small proportion would not;
for clinicians, most of their patients would receive the
intervention; for policymakers, it would be a useful performance
indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an
intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced; most
patients would choose the intervention, but many would not;
clinicians would need to consider the pros and cons for the
patient in the context of the evidence; for policymakers it would
be a poor performance indicator where variability in practice is
expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation
against the use of an
intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most patients
would not choose the intervention while only a small proportion
would; for clinicians, most of their patients would not receive the
intervention
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
296 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
eczema), what are the clinical effectiveness/efﬁcacy, safety and
tolerability of NB-UVB phototherapy, as monotherapy or in
combination with another treatment, used prophylactically and
to treat active disease, compared with photoprotective measures
including sunscreen, topical and oral corticosteroids, other
light-based therapies, systemic immunosuppression, other topi-
cal and oral anti-inﬂammatory/immunomodulator agents, bio-
logical
therapy,
placebo,
no
treatment
or
NB-UVB
in
combination with a different treatment?
Outcomes
The GDG also established a set of outcome measures of
importance to patients for each review question. These were
agreed by the patient representatives and ranked by them
according to the GRADE methodology5 and data on these
extracted from the included studies (Appendixes B–P). Out-
comes ranked 7, 8 or 9 are critical for decision making, those
ranked 4, 5 or 6 are important but not critical for decision
making, and those ranked 1, 2 or 3 not generally important
for decision making.
Review question 1: skin diseases
Disease improvement [e.g. ≥75% improvement in Psoriasis
Area and Severity Index (PASI) or Eczema Area and Severity
Index (EASI), or ≥50% repigmentation] (9)
Serious adverse events: acute and chronic (9)
Change in psychological wellbeing or quality of life [e.g.
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)] (9)
Disease-speciﬁc physician assessment [e.g. PASI, EASI,
Severity
Weighted
Assessment
Tool
(SWAT),
Physician’s
Global Assessment (PGA)] (8)
Disease-speciﬁc patient self-assessment (8)
Sustained clearance and beneﬁt (6)
Treatment tolerability (6)
Reduction of other therapy (6)
Convenience of treatment (5)
Minor adverse events (3)
Review question 2: Photodermatoses
Serious adverse events: acute and chronic (9)
Change in psychological wellbeing or quality of life (e.g.
DLQI) (9)
Disease-speciﬁc physician assessment (8)
Disease-speciﬁc patient self-assessment (8)
Change in sun tolerance (7)
Sustained clearance and beneﬁt (6)
Treatment tolerability (6)
Reduction of other therapy (6)
Convenience of treatment (5)
Minor adverse events (3)
3. Summary of recommendations
The following recommendations and ratings were agreed
upon unanimously by the core members of the GDG and
patient representatives. For further information on the word-
ing used for recommendations and strength of recommenda-
tion ratings see Table 1. The evidence for recommendations is
based on the studies as listed (for details and discussion of the
evidence see Appendixes B–P).
The clinical efﬁcacy and appropriateness of other treatment
modalities should also be considered, taking into account the
patient’s diagnosis, age and comorbidities, and patient choice.
The GDG is aware of the lack of high-quality evidence for
some of these recommendations.
GPP indicates a Good Practice Point: recommendations
derived from consensus.
Strong recommendations marked with an asterisk (*) are
based on the available evidence, and/or consensus based on
specialist experience.
General (applies to all treated conditions)
R1 (GPP) Explain the potential beneﬁts and harms of NB-
UVB and provide a patient information leaﬂet (e.g. https://
www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-treatments) to can-
didates prior to choosing the treatment.
R2 (GPP) All centres should have a phototherapy protocol in
place for treatment and to address episodes of symptomatic
erythema and other adverse effects.
R3 (↑↑) Carry out minimal erythema dose (MED) testing or
test a small area before starting treatment to ascertain a safe
starting dose of NB-UVB.
R4 (GPP) All phototherapy devices (including handheld
devices) should be evaluated and safety checked by medical
physics, and irradiance measurements should be carried out at
regular intervals appropriate for the frequency of use.
R5 (GPP) All phototherapy centres should consider providing
a home phototherapy service, within an appropriate gover-
nance framework and particularly where there is geographical
need.
R6 (GPP) Offer skin cancer surveillance at appropriate inter-
vals to people identiﬁed as having received more than 500
whole-body NB-UVB treatments, particularly those individuals
with other coexisting risk factors for skin cancer.
R7 (↓↓) Do not offer NB-UVB phototherapy to people who
are taking ciclosporin, mycophenolate, azathioprine or oral
tacrolimus (see contraindications) for their skin disease or
other conditions, either as combination therapy or as rescue
therapy to control ﬂares.
R8 (GPP) Continue at least daily use of an emollient during a
course of NB-UVB to prevent and alleviate skin dryness and
pruritus.
R9 (GPP) The use of an emollient should generally be
avoided for at least 2 h before NB-UVB, particularly in people
with psoriasis, as this may reduce UV transmission in the skin.
[However, in people with eczema, consistent treatment of the
skin barrier defect outweighs any reduction in UV transmis-
sion and these individuals should use emollient following
their usual routine (see R17).]
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 297
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
Psoriasis
R10 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB to people with psoriasis who have an
inadequate response to topical therapy, or when topical ther-
apy is not suitable, prior to offering systemic immunosuppres-
sion or immunomodulation therapies, including psoralen plus
ultraviolet A (PUVA).
R11 (↑) Consider adding NB-UVB to a selected systemic psori-
asis treatment (i.e. acitretin, methotrexate, fumaric acid esters,
apremilast or biologics) as a short-term rescue therapy to con-
trol ﬂares, if psoriasis is normally well controlled on these
treatments.
R12 (↑) Consider combination therapy of NB-UVB and aci-
tretin in adults and young people with severe chronic psori-
asis, but this must be avoided in anyone of childbearing
potential.
Vitiligo
R13 (GPP) Inform people with vitiligo who are eligible for
NB-UVB of the requirements (depending on local protocols: a
pretherapy assessment, medical photographs taken prior to
and during follow-ups usually every 3 months, two to three
sessions weekly possible for up to 1 year), and the likely
response depending on the affected anatomical site (e.g. the
face and trunk achieve better repigmentation than acral sites).
R14 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB (whole body or localized, e.g. home-
based handheld) as ﬁrst-line phototherapy to people with viti-
ligo who have an inadequate response to topical therapy and/
or have extensive or progressive disease. As a prolonged
course is generally required, discuss the risk–beneﬁt ratio, par-
ticularly for children.a This may be combined with a cal-
cineurin
antagonistb
(more
evidence
for
tacrolimus)
or
intermittent potent topical corticosteroid,c on localized sites
for a time period appropriate to the body site.
[aThere is a lack of data on the skin cancer risk for high
cumulative exposures in children with less deeply pigmented
skin (Fitzpatrick skin types I–III), hence the risk–beneﬁt ratio
needs to be carefully considered. bPrior to combination NB-
UVB and topical tacrolimus treatment, advise patients that
there is a theoretical increased risk of skin cancer with this
combination of treatment. A shared decision should be made
with the person with vitiligo, taking into account other alter-
natives, the individual’s personal and family history of risk of
skin cancer and the impact of the vitiligo. cThere is strong evi-
dence of a limited effect for combination NB-UVB and potent
topical corticosteroid, as well as a high risk of loss of response
upon stopping treatment. Prior to this combination, consider
the risk–beneﬁt ratio of the prolonged use of potent topical
corticosteroid.]
R15 (↑) Consider oral steroids (see vitiligo guidelines for
speciﬁc treatment protocol)6 in combination with NB-UVB in
people with rapidly progressive vitiligo to arrest activity of
the disease, after careful consideration of risks and beneﬁts.
Eczema
R16 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB as ﬁrst-line phototherapy to people
with eczema who have an inadequate response to topical ther-
apy alone, prior to offering systemic immunosuppression or
immunomodulation therapies, including PUVA.
R17 (GPP) Emollients and, if necessary, short-term intermit-
tent topical corticosteroids should continue to be used during
a course of phototherapy for eczema.
R18 (GPP) Stabilize severe, acute ﬂares of eczema prior to
commencing NB-UVB therapy by optimizing topical therapy,
the use of systemic corticosteroids and/or antibiotics as appro-
priate.
R19 (GPP) Consider adding NB-UVB to methotrexate or
another
suitable
systemic
immunomodulatory
medication
(avoid with ciclosporin, mycophenolate, azathioprine and
tacrolimus) as a short-term rescue therapy to control ﬂares, if
eczema is normally well controlled on these treatments.
Palmoplantar dermatoses
R20 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with palmoplantar psori-
asis who have an inadequate response to topical therapy when
PUVA is contraindicated.
R21 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with palmoplantar
eczema who have an inadequate response to topical therapy
when PUVA is contraindicated.
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend NB-UVB in
people with palmoplantar pustulosis.
Lichen planus
R22 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with cutaneous lichen
planus who have an inadequate response to topical therapy.
Morphoea (localized scleroderma)
R23 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with morphoea (local-
ized scleroderma) when an alternative and more effective pho-
totherapy
or
systemic
therapy
is
not
available
or
is
contraindicated.
Mycosis fungoides
R24 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB to people with mycosis fungoides for
treatment of patches or plaques; however, PUVA is more
effective for thicker plaques of mycosis fungoides.
Pityriasis lichenoides
R25 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with pityriasis liche-
noides chronica (PLC) and pityriasis lichenoides et vario-
liformis acuta (PLEVA) who have an inadequate response to
topical therapy.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
298 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
Progressive macular hypomelanosis
R26 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with progressive macular
hypomelanosis.
Subacute and nodular prurigo
R27 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with subacute prurigo
who have an inadequate response to topical therapy.
R28 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with nodular prurigo
who have an inadequate response to topical therapy when an
alternative and more effective phototherapy is not available or
is contraindicated.
Photodermatoses
R29 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB prophylactic phototherapy to people
who are severely affected by polymorphic light eruption and
have an inadequate response to photoprotection.
R30 (↑↑) Offer* NB-UVB prophylactic phototherapy as a treat-
ment option to people with erythropoietic protoporphyria.
R31 (↑) Consider NB-UVB prophylactic phototherapy, after
photoinvestigation and speciﬁc recommendation from a spe-
cialist photobiology centre, in people with chronic actinic
dermatitis who have an inadequate response to photoprotec-
tion and topical therapy.
[Current evidence exists mainly for people with Fitzpatrick
skin type IV and above combined with the use of emollients
and topical or oral corticosteroid.]
R32 (↑) Consider NB-UVB prophylactic phototherapy, after
photoinvestigation and advice from a specialist photobiology
centre, in people with solar urticaria who have an inadequate
response to photoprotection and a second-generation H1-anti-
histamine at a dose of up to fourfold the licensed dose.
R33 (GPP) Consider NB-UVB prophylactic phototherapy, after
photoinvestigation and speciﬁc recommendation from a spe-
cialist photobiology centre, in people who have an inade-
quate response to photoprotection and topical therapy for the
following conditions:
•
Actinic prurigo
•
Photoaggravated eczema
•
Hydroa vacciniforme
Pruritus
R34 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB to people with pruritus associated
with severe kidney disease where other interventions have
failed or are not appropriate.
R35 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with idiopathic or sec-
ondary pruritus (when the underlying cause cannot be cor-
rected), who have an inadequate response to topical therapy.
Chronic urticaria
R36 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with chronic sponta-
neous urticaria. H1-antihistamines should generally be com-
bined with phototherapy.
R37 (GPP) NB-UVB phototherapy should be discussed with
people with chronic spontaneous urticaria who have an inade-
quate response to other treatments.
R38 (↑) Consider NB-UVB in people with symptomatic dermo-
graphism who have an inadequate response to ﬁrst-line therapy.
H1-antihistamines should generally be combined with pho-
totherapy.
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend NB-UVB for
the treatment of the following conditions (see LETR in
Appendix C for a full list):
•
Acne
•
Acquired perforating dermatosis
•
Alopecia areata
•
Cutaneous amyloidosis
•
Cutaneous plasmacytosis
•
Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis
•
Erythema annulare centrifugum
•
Graft-versus-host disease
•
Granuloma annulare
•
Hailey–Hailey disease
•
Keratosis lichenoides chronica
•
Lichen nitidus
•
Lichen sclerosus
•
Notalgia paraesthetica
•
Pigmented purpuric dermatoses
•
Pregnancy-induced dermatoses
•
Pruritic papular eruption in HIV
•
Scleroedema
•
Seborrhoeic dermatitis
•
Subcorneal pustular dermatosis
List of key future research recommendations
The following list outlines future research recommendations
(FRRs).
FRR1 Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating NB-UVB
vs. PUVA for the treatment of people with
•
Hyperkeratotic plaque psoriasis
•
Licheniﬁed eczema
•
Nodular prurigo
•
Palmoplantar psoriasis
•
Palmoplantar eczema
•
Generalized granuloma annulare
FRR2 RCTs evaluating NB-UVB and placebo vs. NB-UVB in
combination with acitretin for the treatment of people with
psoriasis.
FRR3 RCTs to evaluate NB-UVB, PUVA and UVA1 for people
with eczema according to disease pattern, in particular,
whether speciﬁc phototherapy may be more effective in acute
ﬂares of eczema, chronic licheniﬁed eczema or nodular prur-
igo.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 299
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
FRR4 Determine the action spectrum for phototherapy in
eczema.
FRR5 Determine the safety of prolonged courses of NB-UVB
for vitiligo, particularly in children.
FRR6 Large, prospective studies with long-term follow-up of
people treated with NB-UVB to establish skin cancer risk cor-
related with cumulative number, dose, frequency of expo-
sures, age, skin type and ethnicity.
FRR7 Further research into patient and disease characteristics
inﬂuencing therapeutic response to NB-UVB.
4. Introduction
As far back as 1400 BC, sunlight has been harnessed to treat
skin disease,7 but phototherapy’s modern inception began in
the 19th century when renowned physician Niels Finsen used
UV radiation to treat lupus vulgaris. In 1925, Goeckerman
described the beneﬁts of treating psoriasis using UV rays in
combination with crude coal tar,8 but it was not until the
1970s that broadband UVB (BB-UVB) became established as a
treatment for inﬂammatory skin disease. A paradigm shift
occurred in 1988 with the introduction of NB-UVB initially to
treat psoriasis.9,10 Parrish and Jaenicke demonstrated that the
most effective therapeutic UV wavelength for the treatment of
this condition was 313 nm.11 Fluorescent NB-UVB photother-
apy lamps with an emission spectrum that peaks between 310
nm and 311 nm were then originally introduced by Philips,
although NB-UVB phototherapy lamps have since been pro-
duced by other manufacturers.
UV radiation has been shown to have potent immunomodu-
latory properties, which involve multiple mechanisms in both
the innate and adaptive immune systems. It has a signiﬁcant
immunosuppressive effect on T-cell function and induces anti-
gen-speciﬁc tolerance that depends on interactions between
antigen-presenting cells, mast cells and keratinocytes.12 In addi-
tion to the immunomodulatory effects of UV, recent studies
have demonstrated other key effects of phototherapy to be
proapoptotic, antipruritic, antiﬁbrotic and propigmentary, pro-
moting clinical improvement in various skin diseases.13
NB-UVB is now the most commonly used type of pho-
totherapy, and numerous studies have demonstrated its effec-
tiveness in the treatment of psoriasis.14,15 NB-UVB treatment
has also become an established treatment for other inﬂamma-
tory dermatoses such as eczema, as well as for many other
conditions including vitiligo, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and
the photodermatoses.16–18
4.1 Contraindications
There are a number of absolute contraindications to the use of
NB-UVB phototherapy. These include
•
Photogenodermatoses (xeroderma pigmentosum, Cockayne
syndrome,
trichothiodystrophy,
Bloom
syndrome
and
Rothmund–Thomson syndrome)
•
Disorders with a genetic predisposition to skin cancers
(Gorlin syndrome and albinism)
•
Concomitant oral immunosuppressive medication, in par-
ticular ciclosporin, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil
and tacrolimus. However, following careful consideration
of the risk–beneﬁt ratio, NB-UVB could be used in some
people
taking
speciﬁc
immunosuppressive
medications
such as methotrexate or biological therapies
•
People medically unﬁt and unable to safely stand in the
whole-body NB-UVB cubicle (e.g. those with severe car-
diovascular or respiratory disease, and those with poorly
controlled epilepsy)
Relative contraindications
•
Hereditary dysplastic naevus syndrome
•
Lupus erythematosus
•
Previous exposure to arsenic or ionizing radiation
•
Past excessive exposure to natural sunlight, sunbeds or
phototherapy
•
Previous signiﬁcant use of oral immunosuppressive medi-
cation in the form of ciclosporin, azathioprine, mycophe-
nolate mofetil or tacrolimus
•
Current premalignant skin lesions
•
Current and past history of nonmelanoma skin cancer
•
Current and past history of melanoma skin cancer
•
Strong family history of skin cancer (melanoma or non-
melanoma) at a young age
NB-UVB phototherapy should generally be avoided in
patients with a past personal history of melanoma or with a
current melanoma or nonmelanoma skin cancer; however,
cases should be assessed on an individual basis and NB-UVB
could be considered in those individuals where therapeutic
options are limited and the beneﬁt of the treatment outweighs
the potential risks.
NB-UVB phototherapy can be given with caution to people
with dermatoses that may be photoaggravated, such as der-
matomyositis, photoaggravated eczema, Darier disease and
transient acantholytic dermatoses, pityriasis rubra pilaris and
active herpes simplex. It can be used in people taking poten-
tially photosensitizing medications as long as MED testing is
performed before treatment is started.
NB-UVB phototherapy is not contraindicated in childhood
(see Section 11), pregnancy or breastfeeding (see Section 10).
In addition, there are no risks of treating people with pace-
makers in situ.
5. Place in the treatment pathway
NB-UVB is usually considered after no response or inadequate
response to topical therapy, or if the condition is deemed to
be too extensive for topical therapy to treat adequately. It is
also a relatively safe and cost-effective second-line option
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
300 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
compared with immunosuppressive, immunomodulating or
biological therapies and should be offered before these treat-
ment options.
NB-UVB is generally considered before PUVA for many der-
matoses such as psoriasis and eczema due to its better safety
proﬁle and relative ease of treatment without the need for oral
medication and eye protection following treatment. However,
for certain indications, NB-UVB is signiﬁcantly less effective
than PUVA and should be considered only if PUVA is not
available. These indications include thicker plaque-stage myco-
sis fungoides, granuloma annulare, and hand and foot der-
matoses.
PUVA
is
still
also
an
important
second-line
phototherapy for the treatment of many dermatoses, as lack of
adequate response to NB-UVB does not predict lack of
response to PUVA.19
In psoriasis, national UK guidelines (National Institute for
Health and Care Excellence – NICE) state that NB-UVB should
be offered to people with plaque or guttate-pattern psoriasis
that cannot be controlled with topical treatments alone. Sys-
temic treatment should be offered if NB-UVB phototherapy
results in an unsatisfactory response or is poorly tolerated, if
there is rapid relapse following phototherapy, if access is difﬁ-
cult for logistical reasons, or if the person is at especially high
risk of skin cancer.20
In eczema, for children under the age of 12 years, national
UK guidance (NICE) suggests considering phototherapy or
systemic treatments for severe atopic eczema when other man-
agement options have failed or are inappropriate, or if there is
a signiﬁcant negative impact on quality of life.21 For adults
with eczema, the NICE guidance does not speciﬁcally discuss
the use of phototherapy or systemic therapy. In general, UVB
phototherapy is recommended after failure of topical therapy,
before consideration of systemic or biological therapy.
In vitiligo that has not responded to or is unsuitable for
topical therapy, NB-UVB is the ﬁrst-choice modality of pho-
totherapy, over PUVA, due to higher efﬁcacy and a better
safety proﬁle.6
6. Improving access
There is increasing evidence for the cost efﬁcacy of NB-UVB
phototherapy,14,22 but convenience and availability remain an
issue, and any approach that improves patient access to effec-
tive, safe treatment should be a priority.23–25 One option for
improving access is providing home treatment; however, the
availability of this form of treatment is currently limited in
the UK.26,27
In a pragmatic, multicentre, randomized, controlled, nonin-
feriority study comparing home vs. outpatient UVB photother-
apy for mild-to-severe psoriasis in the Netherlands (PLUTO),
105 patients were followed up for 1 year after phototherapy.
The authors found no signiﬁcant difference between the efﬁ-
cacy of outpatient and home treatment as assessed by ≥50%
improvement in PASI or Self-Administered PASI, with no sig-
niﬁcant differences in adverse effects.28
In the UK, two studies in Tayside demonstrated home UVB
phototherapy to have similar outcomes to hospital-based pho-
totherapy.29 The estimated costs to the hospital ranged from
£229 to £314 per course (£307 to £422 per effective course for
psoriasis), compared with £114 for outpatient therapy (£149
per effective course for psoriasis). However, the total cost to soci-
ety (hospital and patient costs) is around £410 per course, com-
pared with an estimated £550 for outpatient phototherapy.30
Home-based phototherapy may also be considered for peo-
ple with vitiligo.31,32 This can be undertaken using either
whole-body units or handheld and non-handheld devices for
localized areas.33–36 A prospective study showed no signiﬁcant
difference in repigmentation rates between home-based and
hospital-based phototherapy, and only minimal adverse effects
and similar health-related quality-of-life scores.37 A random-
ized controlled trial of home interventions (HI-Light Vitiligo
Trial) found that combination treatment with home-based
handheld NB-UVB and potent topical corticosteroid was likely
to be superior to potent topical corticosteroid monotherapy in
the treatment of localized vitiligo.38
It is important to recognize that there are increased safety
concerns in the home setting that should be carefully consid-
ered. To obtain optimal patient outcomes and ensure robust
safety,
careful
patient
selection
and
training
should
be
ensured, along with remote but close monitoring by experi-
enced phototherapy nurses supported by a hospital-based pho-
totherapy team, which must include medical physics expertise
and use a clear governance framework. Recent experience of
setting up a new service has been reported,39 and a useful
model for setting up a home phototherapy service is described
by Hung et al.40 An alternative way to improve convenience
and access to phototherapy services for patients is to enable
the patient to self-administer their own treatment in the hos-
pital setting. In a pilot study, 20 selected people with eczema
and psoriasis took ownership of treatment by self-administer-
ing their UVB phototherapy at hospital. This was safe and
effective and enabled them to take greater control of atten-
dance times for UVB phototherapy.41
7. Light sources and dosimetry
While ﬂuorescent phototherapy lamps are most commonly
used, NB-UVB can be delivered by other sources such as an
excimer laser/lamp or ﬁltered broadband lamp (further details
in Appendix U; see Supporting Information). Such lamps are
generally used for targeted therapy rather than whole-body
irradiation.42–45 Regardless of the method of illumination,
accurate dosimetry (measurement) is critical for efﬁcient and
safe treatment delivery. Measurement techniques will vary
depending on the NB-UVB source, and published guidelines
are available.46,47 It is important that, as part of a quality
assurance system, there are regular quality control measure-
ments performed on the cabinet to ensure the accuracy and
consistency of the UV dose delivered.48 Accurate measurement
is
required
for
employee
safety,
in
order
to
compare
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 301
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
anticipated occupational exposure to exposure limit values.
This is completed as part of a risk assessment as required by
the control of artiﬁcial optical radiation at work regulations
2010.49
8. Protocols for treatment delivery
Phototherapy protocol variables include initial dose, frequency
of treatment, incremental regimen, maximum dose, number
of exposures, and potentially a ‘tailing-off’ period of treat-
ment. There is a lack of good-quality study evidence to guide
decision making for many of these variables. Studies in people
with psoriasis predominantly with skin phototypes I and II
support the need for a test dose on a small area, principally
for safety reasons.50 Routine MED testing will allow identiﬁca-
tion of people with photosensitivity induced by medication,
or previously unrecognized photodermatoses such as chronic
actinic dermatitis prior to treatment. This will help prevent
sensitive people from burning during treatment and identify
whether people require further phototesting.51,52
For people with psoriasis, the use of 20% increments has
been shown to be only slightly less effective than 40% incre-
ments, but importantly it was associated with fewer episodes
of symptomatic erythema.53 Treatment three times weekly is
not signiﬁcantly less effective than ﬁve times weekly, and was
associated
with
fewer
symptomatic
erythema
reactions,54
while treatment twice weekly is as effective as three times
weekly, but the duration of treatment is more prolonged.55 A
study from Turkey showed that, for psoriasis, maintenance
NB-UVB did not result in longer remission.56
There is limited study evidence for speciﬁc protocols to
treat other conditions. In atopic eczema, a comparative study
demonstrated that a low-increment regimen can work as well
as higher increments.57
Examples of commonly used protocols in the UK are avail-
able on the NHS Scotland Photonet website.58
It is important that protocols are used only as a guide, as devi-
ation from protocols will be necessary for optimum results in
many individual patients. This is particularly the case for condi-
tions other than psoriasis and will vary according to the clini-
cian’s individual expertise in treating particular conditions.
9. Adverse effects
NB-UVB is considered a safe treatment modality with a rela-
tively low risk of adverse effects.59,60
9.1 Short-term adverse effects
Erythema is the most commonly experienced adverse effect,
although its reported rate differs throughout the literature.61–
63 Erythema is usually recorded using a semiquantitative grad-
ing system consisting of E0 (no erythema), E1 (barely percep-
tible asymptomatic), E2 (well deﬁned with mild discomfort),
E3 (well deﬁned and painful) and E4 (painful erythema, with
bullae). E3 and E4 sunburn-type reactions occur infrequently
during courses of phototherapy.64 The frequency of erythema
varies according to body site65,66 and may increase in the
presence of photosensitizing medication.67 Erythema develops
within 3–5 h following exposure to UVB, peaks between 12
and 24 h and resolves by 72 h,68 although this may vary
depending on the intensity of the UV exposure.69,70
The risk of phototoxic drug eruptions can be minimized by
taking a careful drug history and carrying out MED testing
prior to treatment. Individuals also need to be instructed to
check with staff before commencing any new medication
while receiving phototherapy.
Provocation of photodermatoses. Polymorphic light eruption (PLE) may
develop during treatment with NB-UVB. In a retrospective sur-
vey, the provocation rate with NB-UVB was 195% in 113
patients with PLE, compared with 07% in 974 patients with
other diagnoses.71 In the event of ﬂaring, dose reduction and
cautious escalation help to lower PLE recurrence. The application
of a potent topical steroid to commonly affected sites immedi-
ately following each treatment may further reduce the inci-
dence.72
To minimize the risk of triggering lupus erythematosus,
autoantibody screening should be considered prior to pho-
totherapy in any individual with relevant symptoms or with a
known family history of lupus.
The provocation of other previously undiagnosed photoder-
matoses by NB-UVB, such as chronic actinic dermatitis, can be
severe but occurs less frequently. This cannot be consistently
predicted from the patient’s history, but the presence of a
reduced MED should prompt assessment for coexistent photo-
sensitivity prior to treatment.
Reactivation of herpes simplex virus (HSV) and HSV keratitis can
occur as a result of NB-UVB treatment.73,74 In people with a
history of HSV infection, the use of prophylactic aciclovir and
facial shielding during treatment should be considered.
Pruritus during NB-UVB is commonly reported61,75 but may
arise directly from the underlying disease.4
The development of bullae limited to psoriatic plaques with sparing
of the surrounded nonlesional skin during NB-UVB therapy is
a recognized but uncommon complication of therapy. It is
hypothesized to reﬂect the enhanced penetration of UVB
through lesional skin due to the reduction in acanthosis and
desquamation during treatment.76,77
Idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis-like hypopigmented macules and freckling
have been reported to occur in NB-UVB phototherapy, includ-
ing in people with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.78–80
9.2 Delayed adverse effects
Photoageing presenting as coarse wrinkling or cutaneous atrophy81
is a recognized delayed adverse effect of exposure to UVB.82
Photocarcinogenesis. The potential risk of skin cancer with PUVA
is well established with evidence from both the European and
American literature, but the risks with NB-UVB are less clear.
Mouse studies indicated that NB-UVB may have a two times
higher risk of inducing skin cancer compared with BB-UVB
per MED;9,83–85 however, in clinical practice, the number of
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
302 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
MEDs required for a NB-UVB treatment course is usually less
than one-third of that required for BB-UVB, resulting in the
overall skin cancer risk probably being lower than that of BB-
UVB.86 This is borne out in clinical studies. A systematic
review that included only four studies was unable to identify
an increased risk of skin cancer following NB-UVB.87
People with vitiligo will usually have prolonged courses
and there is only limited evidence to support the long-term
safety of high cumulative exposures of NB-UVB in people
with vitiligo, although a retrospective study of 15 people with
skin types IV–VI receiving between 200 and 600 treatments
with a mean follow-up of 835 months did not detect any
skin cancers.88 There are special considerations for treatment
of children (see Section 11).
The NICE-accredited BAD Service Guidance and Standards
for Phototherapy Units 201648 currently recommends greater
than 500 UVB exposures as the threshold to trigger considera-
tion of skin cancer screening review. It may be appropriate to
treat past these arbitrary threshold numbers after clinical
assessment by a consultant dermatologist and discussion with
the individual patient of the risks and beneﬁts of the various
treatment options.
The incidences of genital tumours in men exposed to PUVA and
BB-UVB are approximately 163 and 46 times higher than in the
general population, respectively.89 No evidence exists separately for
NB-UVB inducing genital tumours, but it is prudent to cover male
genitalia during treatment. There is no standard material used for
shielding genitalia, but studies of UV transmittance suggest that dar-
ker-coloured materials such as polyester (close weave type and high
thread count) offer better protection.90
Eye photodamage. Exposure of the eye to NB-UVB can result in
acute and chronic photodamage.91 Photokeratitis92 and photo-
conjunctivitis93 may occur acutely, while chronic exposure is
linked to the development of pterygium and cataract forma-
tion.94 For this reason the use of UV-protective goggles is rec-
ommended during treatment. Only negligible amounts of
UVB are transmitted through the eyelids, and therefore NB-
UVB phototherapy can be safely used with the eyes closed in
those with eyelid dermatoses, providing eyelid closure is com-
plete and people adhere to this advice.90,95 For any patient in
whom that is not possible, the use of UV-protective contact
lenses can be considered. Soft lenses are preferable to gas-per-
meable ones due to complete coverage of the cornea.96
10. Use in pregnancy
Signiﬁcant reductions in folic acid levels through photodegra-
dation have been reported following high cumulative NB-UVB
doses (118 J cm2 following 36 sessions of NB-UVB in the
management of psoriasis).97 Measurement of folic acid levels
either with or without supplementation should be considered
in women trying to conceive. For women of childbearing age
receiving prolonged whole-body NB-UVB courses (e.g. > 30
treatments) folate supplementation should be considered, and
the need for supplementation reinforced for those receiving
NB-UVB in the ﬁrst trimester of pregnancy.98,99
During pregnancy the use of facial shielding during treat-
ment may help to limit the exacerbation of melasma.
NB-UVB can also be safely used in women who are breast-
feeding.
11. Narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy in
children
The general efﬁcacy, tolerability and short-term safety in chil-
dren
have
been
demonstrated
in
several
retrospective
reviews.100–102
There is no arbitrary lower age at which children can be
treated with NB-UVB, but children would need to be able to
be safely left alone in the cabinet for treatment and be capable
of complying with all the required safety measures including
eye protection requirements; this would generally be around
the age of 6 years or above.
Although formal long-term safety data are lacking, the rela-
tively low incidence of skin cancers reported in people treated
with NB-UVB in childhood is reassuring. While there is no
long-term evidence to show an increased risk of melanoma in
those treated with NB-UVB in childhood, overall numbers are
small. There is a suggestion of a positive association between
childhood sunburn reactions and subsequent risk of mela-
noma. It is therefore likely to be of increased importance that
MED testing is carried out in children before treatment and
that consideration is given to choosing treatment protocols
that reduce the risk of symptomatic erythemal episodes.
There is a lack of studies on the treatment of vitiligo with NB-
UVB in children. As this condition generally requires a prolonged
course and sometimes repeated treatments, photocarcinogenesis
may be a particular concern. However, a retrospective study using a
hospital database has demonstrated safety in terms of skin cancer
risk, at least in the medium term for people with skin types IV–VI.88
A systematic review of treatment options for childhood pso-
riasis103 demonstrates NB-UVB phototherapy to be effective
based on data from two open-label studies104,105 and three
retrospective reviews.101,106,107 This efﬁcacy is also conﬁrmed
in a retrospective study.108
In atopic eczema, there is good evidence of the efﬁcacy of NB-
UVB in children. A number of noncomparative studies that
included both children and adults (n = 296) looked at NB-UVB
as a monotherapy102,106–114 or in combination with UVA.101
These agreed that NB-UVB is effective in moderate, severe and
chronic atopic dermatitis/eczema. A further study compared the
outcome of children with moderate-to-severe eczema treated
with NB-UVB to children who had declined this treatment (con-
trol group) and showed NB-UVB to be effective.115 Conse-
quently, the national UK guidance (NICE) suggests considering
phototherapy as second-line therapy for children under the age
of 12 years with severe atopic eczema.21
In the childhood photodermatoses, there is some evidence for
the use of NB-UVB in PLE,72,106,116 although this is less well
established than for adults. There are also case series supporting
the use of NB-UVB in erythropoietic protoporphyria and to a les-
ser extent in actinic prurigo and hydroa vacciniforme.106,117,118
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 303
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
In MF, there are 28 retrospective case series (n = 600),
which
included
100
children
or
young
adults
(see
Appendix J12). These demonstrated NB-UVB as monother-
apy or in combination with topical corticosteroids to be an
effective treatment option for early-stage MF.
Anxiety about the treatment may be a problem for some chil-
dren,106 but this can usually be managed by a clear explanation and
a pretreatment visit to the unit. A patient information leaﬂet speciﬁ-
cally for children is also very helpful. Support from the parents is
essential and children may be reassured that the phototherapy cabi-
net is open topped and the child will be able to communicate with
the parent standing outside the cabinet during treatment.
12. Safety and governance
Skin sunburn-type reactions secondary to phototherapy are an
important cause of litigation and as such clinical governance
and safety are of paramount importance.119,120 In England
(2016–2021) there were 25 episodes of litigation related to
deﬁnite or likely burning from phototherapy out of 327 cases
(personal communications from Nick Levell: GIRFT Dermatol-
ogy lead).
Hospital-based NB-UVB should be administered by a trained
phototherapist, who in 2022 will be either a ﬁrst-level registered
nurse or a physiotherapist registered with the Health and Care Pro-
fessions Council. All staff administering UVB are required to
undertake an initial period of supervised training and to be signed
off as competent for all relevant areas at the end of this period. All
staff should continue to receive annual education and an annual
appraisal, and attend a recognized phototherapy update or course
every 3 years. Further guidance can be found in the Service Guid-
ance and Standards for Phototherapy Units document.48
Patients should be given an education session prior to treat-
ment and should be provided with written patient information
leaﬂets prior to starting their treatment. Educational sessions are
typically nurse led but have been shown to be as effective if pro-
vided as a patient-speciﬁc e-learning session, with the latter
showing improved consistency.121 Patients should sign a consent
form to indicate their understanding of side-effects and safety
procedures during treatment, such as keeping goggles on and
wearing the same clothing during the sessions, where relevant.
Accurate, clear and timely documentation of any patient
examination, routine treatment checks, doses given and side-
effects observed must be made at each patient visit.
For
home
phototherapy,
careful
patient
selection
is
required. Training and ongoing remote supervision and sup-
port during the course of treatment by a trained and experi-
enced phototherapist are essential, along with the use of
standardized treatment protocols, documentation and appro-
priate governance frameworks.26,29,30,40,122
Unintentional UVB exposure to staff and public should be lim-
ited by measures such as curtains around cabinets to control UV
scatter from walls and ceilings, and an assessment of environ-
mental scatter should be made in line with The Control of Artiﬁ-
cial Optical Radiation at Work Regulations 2010.49 The safety of
the cabinets, their outputs and the local environment is covered
separately in the 2015 BAD guidelines on the measurement of
UV radiation levels in UV phototherapy.46
13. Recommended audit points
The service delivery aspect of phototherapy is covered in
depth in the NICE-accredited BAD Service Guidance and Stan-
dards for Phototherapy Units 2016.48 This includes recom-
mendations on referral and patient assessment, consent, staff
training, clinical management, equipment, governance and
audit.
Recommended audit points are as follows.
In the last 30 consecutive cases of people treated with NB-
UVB, is there clear documentation of
1
People with psoriasis
a
having initially demonstrated inadequate response to
topical therapy
b having NB-UVB prior to consideration of systemic
immunosuppression or immunomodulation therapies
2
People with eczemas
a
having initially demonstrated inadequate response to
topical therapy
b having NB-UVB prior to consideration of systemic
immunosuppression or immunomodulation therapies
c
having continued topical therapy during the course of
NB-UVB
d with severe, acute ﬂares having been stabilized prior
to instituting NB-UVB
3
People with vitiligo
a
having initially demonstrated inadequate response to
topical therapy
b having extensive or progressive disease
4
The provision of a patient information leaﬂet (https://
www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-treatments)
The audit recommendation of 30 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient and to
allow benchmarking between different units (Appendix W;
see Supporting Information).
14. Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The draft document was made available for comments to the
BAD membership, the British Photodermatology Group (BPG),
the British Dermatological Nursing Group (BDNG), the Primary
Care Dermatological Society (PCDS), the British Society for Pae-
diatric Dermatology (BSPD), the British Society for Medical Der-
matology (BSMD), the Psoriasis Association (PA), the Psoriasis
and Psoriatic Arthritis Alliance (PAPAA), the National Eczema
Society (NES), the UK Cutaneous Lupus Group (UKCLG), the
Vitiligo Society, Vitiligo Support UK, Lymphoma Action and the
British Porphyria Association (BPA). All comments were actively
considered by the GDG. Following further review, the ﬁnalized
version was sent for peer review by the Clinical Standards Unit
of the BAD, made up of the Therapy & Guidelines subcommit-
tee, prior to submission for publication.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
304 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
15. Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain circumstances it may
be necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results
of future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence.
16. Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2027; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to all three patient representatives,
including Ms India Angra and Ms Emma Rush, for their input
in formulating the clinical questions, ranking of the outcomes,
reviewing the evidence and formulating the recommendations,
and the Vitiligo Support UK members for their input in rank-
ing the outcomes and providing details of their experiences.
We thank Zahra Kiaee (guideline research fellow) for her help
with summarizing the papers from the top-up search, as well
as all of those who commented on the draft during the con-
sultation period.
Funding sources
None. Development of this guideline was funded indepen-
dently by the British Association of Dermatologists.
Conﬂicts of interest
The following interests were declared over the duration of the
guideline development: V.G.: past chair of the British Photoder-
matology Group (nonspeciﬁc). R.D.: member of Photonet, the
NHS Scotland Managed Clinical Network for UV phototherapy
(speciﬁc). E.E.: (i) member of Photonet, the NHS Scotland Man-
aged Clinical Network for UV phototherapy (speciﬁc); (ii)
grant/research support from Blueside Photonics Ltd (nonspeci-
ﬁc). A.F.: (i) speaker fees and consultancy – Sanoﬁ(nonspeciﬁc);
(ii) speaker fees and honoraria – AbbVie, Dermal, Novartis,
Sanoﬁ(nonspeciﬁc); (iii) travel and course expenses – AbbVie,
Almirall, Novartis, Sanoﬁ(nonspeciﬁc). S.H.I.: travel expenses
and honoraria – Galderma UK (nonspeciﬁc). E.R.: Vitiligo Sup-
port UK (speciﬁc). S.C.W.: (i) treasurer of the British Photoder-
matology Group (nonspeciﬁc); (ii) grants/research support
from the British Skin Foundation – Predicting remission out-
comes for psoriasis following phototherapy (speciﬁc). T.C.L.,
P.B., H.F., T.G., L.N., H.W., M.H., M.F.M.M. and L.S.E. declare
they have no conﬂicts of interest.
Data availability
The data are available in the Supporting Information.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix A Review protocol.
Appendix B Forest plots.
Appendix C Linking Evidence To Recommendations (LETR).
Appendix D GRADE evidence tables.
Appendix E Psoriasis: summary of included studies.
Appendix F Vitiligo: summary of included studies.
Appendix G Eczema/atopic dermatitis: summary of included
studies.
Appendix H Hand and foot dermatoses: summary of included
studies.
Appendix I Lichen planus: summary of included studies.
Appendix J Mycosis fungoides/cutaneous T-cell lymphoma:
summary of included studies.
Appendix K
Pityriasis
lichenoides:
summary
of
included
studies.
Appendix L Subacute prurigo: summary of included studies.
Appendix M Pruritus: summary of included studies.
Appendix N
Chronic
spontaneous
urticaria:
summary
of
included studies.
Appendix O Other skin diseases excluding photodermatoses:
summary of included studies.
Appendix P Photodermatoses: summary of included studies.
Appendix Q PRISMA diagram: study selection.
Appendix R Critical appraisal of included systematic reviews:
AMSTAR 2.
Appendix S Papers excluded from quantitative analysis.
Appendix T Methodology.
Appendix U Light sources and dosimetry.
Appendix V Search strategy.
Appendix W Audit standards, data items and data collection
methodology.
References
1 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Updated guidance for
writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline:
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J Dermatol
2017; 176:44–51.
2 Brouwers M, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in healthcare.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
3 Bilsland D, Dawe R, Diffey BL et al. An appraisal of narrowband
(TL-01) UVB phototherapy. British Photodermatology Group
Workshop
Report
(April
1996).
Br
J
Dermatol
1997;
137:
327–30.
4 Ibbotson SH, Bilsland D, Cox NH et al. An update and guidance
on narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy: a British Photoderma-
tology Group Workshop Report. Br J Dermatol 2004; 151:283–97.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 305
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
5 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging con-
sensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommen-
dations. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
6 Eleftheriadou V, Atkar R, Batchelor J et al. British Association of
Dermatologists guidelines for the management of people with
vitiligo 2021. Br J Dermatol 2022; 186:18–29.
7 Fitzpatrick TB, Pathak MA. Historical aspects of methoxsalen and
other furocoumarins. J Invest Dermatol 1959; 32:229–31.
8 Goeckerman WH. The treatment of psoriasis. Northwest Med 1925;
24:229–31.
9 van Weelden H, De La Faille HB, Young E et al. A new develop-
ment in UVB phototherapy of psoriasis. Br J Dermatol 1988;
119:11–19.
10 Dogra S, Kanwar AJ. Narrow band UVB phototherapy in derma-
tology. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2004; 70:205–9.
11 Parrish JA, Jaenicke KF. Action spectrum for phototherapy of pso-
riasis. J Invest Dermatol 1981; 76:359–62.
12 Bernard JJ, Gallo RL, Krutmann J. Photoimmunology: how ultra-
violet radiation affects the immune system. Nat Rev Immunol 2019;
19:688–701.
13 Vieyra-Garcia PA, Wolf P. A deep dive into UV-based photother-
apy: mechanisms of action and emerging molecular targets in
inﬂammation and cancer. Pharmacol Ther 2021; 222:107784.
14 Foerster J, Boswell K, West J et al. Narrowband UVB treatment is
highly effective and causes a strong reduction in the use of ster-
oid and other creams in psoriasis patients in clinical practice.
PLOS ONE 2017; 12:e0181813.
15 Green C, Ferguson J, Lakshmipathi T et al. 311 nm UVB pho-
totherapy – an effective treatment for psoriasis. Br J Dermatol
1988; 119:691–6.
16 Gambichler T, Altmeyer P, Kreuter A. Treatment of acquired per-
forating dermatosis with narrowband ultraviolet B. J Am Acad Der-
matol 2005; 52:363–4.
17 Ibbotson SH. A perspective on the use of NB-UVB phototherapy
vs. PUVA photochemotherapy. Front Med (Lausanne) 2018; 5:184.
18 Chan IHY, Murrell DF. Itch Management: Physical Approaches (UV Pho-
totherapy, Acupuncture). Basel: Karger Publishers, 2016.
19 Ling TC, Clayton TH, Crawley J et al. British Association of Der-
matologists and British Photodermatology Group guidelines for
the safe and effective use of psoralen–ultraviolet A therapy 2015.
Br J Dermatol 2016; 174:24–55.
20 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Psoriasis:
assessment and management. Available at: https://www.nice.org.
uk/guidance/CG153 (last accessed 17 May 2022).
21 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Eczema. Avail-
able
at
https://pathways.nice.org.uk/pathways/eczema
(last
accessed 17 May 2022).
22 Boswell K, Cameron H, West J et al. Narrowband ultraviolet B
treatment for psoriasis is highly economical and causes signiﬁcant
savings in cost for topical treatments. Br J Dermatol 2018;
179:1148–56.
23 Lim HW, Silpa-archa N, Amadi U et al. Phototherapy in derma-
tology: a call for action. J Am Acad Dermatol 2015; 72:1078–80.
24 Haykal KA, DesGroseilliers JP. Are narrow-band ultraviolet B
home units a viable option for continuous or maintenance
therapy of photoresponsive diseases? J Cutan Med Surg 2006;
10:234–40.
25 Klotz J, Muir L, Cameron C et al. Monitoring a remote photother-
apy unit via telemedicine. J Cutan Med Surg 2005; 9:47–53.
26 Anderson KL, Feldman SR. A guide to prescribing home pho-
totherapy for patients with psoriasis: the appropriate patient, the
type of unit, the treatment regimen, and the potential obstacles. J
Am Acad Dermatol 2015; 72:868–78.
27 Koek MB, Buskens E, Bruijnzeel-Koomen CA et al. Home ultravio-
let B phototherapy for psoriasis: discrepancy between literature,
guidelines, general opinions and actual use. Results of a literature
review, a web search, and a questionnaire among dermatologists.
Br J Dermatol 2006; 154:701–11.
28 Koek MB, Sigurdsson V, van Weelden H et al. Cost effectiveness
of home ultraviolet B phototherapy for psoriasis: economic eval-
uation of a randomised controlled trial (PLUTO study). BMJ
2010; 340:c1490.
29 Cameron H, Yule S, Moseley H et al. Taking treatment to the
patient: development of a home TL-01 ultraviolet B phototherapy
service. Br J Dermatol 2002; 147:957–65.
30 Cameron H, Yule S, Dawe RS et al. Review of an established UK
home phototherapy service 1998–2011: improving access to a
cost-effective treatment for chronic skin disease. Public Health
2014; 128:317–24.
31 Khandpur S, Bhatia R. Handheld narrow band ultraviolet B comb
as home phototherapy device for localised vitiligo: dosimetry and
calibration. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2018; 84:78–80.
32 Shan X, Wang C, Tian H et al. Narrow-band ultraviolet B home
phototherapy in vitiligo. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2014;
80:336–8.
33 Eleftheriadou V, Ezzedine K. Portable home phototherapy for viti-
ligo. Clin Dermatol 2016; 34:603–6.
34 Toll A, Velez-Gonzalez M, Gallardo F et al. Treatment of localized
persistent plaque psoriasis with incoherent narrowband ultraviolet
B phototherapy. J Dermatolog Treat 2005; 16:165–8.
35 Lapidoth M, Adatto M, David M. Targeted UVB phototherapy for
psoriasis: a preliminary study. Clin Exp Dermatol 2007; 32:642–5.
36 Narang K, Gottlieb AB. A review of home phototherapy and
available home and handheld phototherapy units. Psoriasis Forum
2013; 19a:71–5.
37 Zhang L, Wang X, Chen S et al. Comparison of efﬁcacy and safety
proﬁle for home NB-UVB vs. outpatient NB-UVB in the treatment
of non-segmental vitiligo: a prospective cohort study. Photodermatol
Photoimmunol Photomed 2019; 35:261–7.
38 Thomas KS, Batchelor JM, Akram P et al. Randomized controlled
trial of topical corticosteroid and home-based narrowband ultra-
violet B for active and limited vitiligo: results of the HI-Light
Vitiligo Trial. Br J Dermatol 2021; 184:828–39.
39 Warburton KL, Ward A, Turner D et al. Home phototherapy:
experience of setting up a new service in the U.K.’s National
Health Service. Br J Dermatol 2020; 182:251–3.
40 Hung R, Ungureanu S, Edwards C et al. Home phototherapy for
psoriasis: a review and update. Clin Exp Dermatol 2015; 40:827–2.
41 Yule S, Sanyal S, Ibbotson S et al. Self-administration of hospital-
based narrowband ultraviolet B (TL-01) phototherapy: a feasibil-
ity study in an outpatient setting. Br J Dermatol 2013; 169:464–8.
42 Aubin F, Vigan M, Puzenat E et al. Evaluation of a novel 308-nm
monochromatic excimer light delivery system in dermatology: a
pilot study in different chronic localized dermatoses. Br J Dermatol
2005; 152:99–103.
43 Leone G, Iacovelli P, Vidolin AP et al. Monochromatic excimer
light 308 nm in the treatment of vitiligo: a pilot study. J Eur Acad
Dermatol Venereol 2003; 17:531–7.
44 Lotti T, Tripo L, Grazzini M et al. Focused UV-B narrowband
microphototherapy (Biopsorin). A new treatment for plaque pso-
riasis. Dermatol Ther 2009; 22:383–5.
45 Asawanonda P, Anderson RR, Chang Y et al. 308-nm excimer
laser for the treatment of psoriasis: a dose–response study. Arch
Dermatol 2000; 136:619–24.
46 Moseley H, Allan D, Amatiello H et al. Guidelines on the mea-
surement
of
ultraviolet
radiation
levels
in
ultraviolet
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
306 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
phototherapy: report issued by the British Association of Derma-
tologists and British Photodermatology Group 2015. Br J Dermatol
2015; 173:333–50.
47 Moseley H. Scottish UV dosimetry guidelines, ‘ScUViDo’. Photoder-
matol Photoimmunol Photomed 2001; 17:230–3.
48 British Association of Dermatologists. Service Guidance and Stan-
dards for Phototherapy Units. Available at: https://cdn.bad.org.
uk/uploads/2021/12/29200202/Phototherapy-Service-
Guidance-and-Standards-20193.pdf (last accessed 17 May 2022).
49 Legislation.gov.uk. The Control of Artiﬁcial Optical Radiation at
Work Regulations 2010. Available at: http://www.legislation.gov.
uk/uksi/2010/1140/contents/made
(last
accessed
17
May
2022).
50 Dawe RS, Cameron HM, Yule S et al. A randomized comparison
of methods of selecting narrowband UV-B starting dose to treat
chronic psoriasis. Arch Dermatol 2011; 147:168–74.
51 Dawe RS, Arseculeratne G, Ferguson J. Chronic actinic dermatitis
recognized on minimal erythema dose testing prior to narrow-
band UVB treatment for psoriasis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Pho-
tomed 2005; 21:112–13.
52 Asawanonda P. Chronic actinic dermatitis developing during nar-
rowband UVB phototherapy for psoriasis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol
Photomed 2004; 20:66–7.
53 Wainwright NJ, Dawe RS, Ferguson J. Narrowband ultraviolet B
(TL-01) phototherapy for psoriasis: which incremental regimen?
Br J Dermatol 1998; 139:410–14.
54 Dawe RS, Wainwright NJ, Cameron H et al. Narrow-band (TL-
01) ultraviolet B phototherapy for chronic plaque psoriasis: three
times or ﬁve times weekly treatment? Br J Dermatol 1998;
138:833–9.
55 Cameron H, Dawe RS, Yule S et al. A randomized, observer-
blinded trial of twice vs. three times weekly narrowband ultravi-
olet B phototherapy for chronic plaque psoriasis. Br J Dermatol
2002; 147:973–8.
56 Boztepe G, Karaduman A, Sahin S et al. The effect of maintenance
narrow-band ultraviolet B therapy on the duration of remission
for psoriasis: a prospective randomized clinical trial. Int J Dermatol
2006; 45:245–50.
57 Selvaag E, Caspersen L, Bech-Thomsen N et al. Optimized UVB
treatment of atopic dermatitis using skin reﬂectance measure-
ments. A controlled, left–right comparison trial. Acta Derm Venereol
2005; 85:144–6.
58 NHS Scotland. Photonet National Managed Clinical Network.
Treatment protocols. Available at: https://www.photonet.scot.
nhs.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/2018-10-15-Treatment-
Protocols-ﬁnal.pdf (last accessed 19 May 2022).
59 Martin JA, Laube S, Edwards C et al. Rate of acute adverse events
for narrow-band UVB and psoralen-UVA phototherapy. Photoder-
matol Photoimmunol Photomed 2007; 23:68–72.
60 Pearce DJ, Higgins KB, Stealey KH et al. Adverse events from sys-
temic therapies for psoriasis are common in clinical practice. J
Dermatolog Treat 2006; 17:288–93.
61 Bilsland D, George SA, Gibbs NK et al. A comparison of narrow
band phototherapy (TL-01) and photochemotherapy (PUVA) in
the management of polymorphic light eruption. Br J Dermatol
1993; 129:708–12.
62 Palmer RA, Aquilina S, Milligan PJ et al. Photoadaptation during
narrowband ultraviolet-B therapy is independent of skin type: a
study of 352 patients. J Invest Dermatol 2006; 126:1256–63.
63 Batchelor RJ, Rose RF, Yung A et al. Audit of erythema in patients
with psoriasis undergoing phototherapy with narrowband (TL-
01) ultraviolet B: impact of the introduction of a comprehensive
erythema-reporting protocol. Br J Dermatol 2007; 156:1045–6.
64 Whitehouse HJ, Thomson K, Goulden V. A regional audit of
symptomatic erythema rates in psoriasis patients treated with
whole-body narrowband ultraviolet type B: a basis for setting an
erythema standard. Clin Exp Dermatol 2020; 45:732–3.
65 Leslie KS, Lodge E, Garioch JJ. A comparison of narrowband (TL-
01) UVB-induced erythemal response at different body sites. Clin
Exp Dermatol 2005; 30:337–9.
66 Rhodes LE, Friedmann PS. A comparison of the ultraviolet B-in-
duced erythemal response of back and buttock skin. Photodermatol
Photoimmunol Photomed 1992; 9:48–51.
67 Harrop G, Dawe RS, Ibbotson S. Are photosensitizing medications
associated with increased risk of important erythemal reactions dur-
ing ultraviolet B phototherapy? Br J Dermatol 2018; 179:1184–5.
68 Gilchrest BA, Soter NA, Stoff JS et al. The human sunburn reac-
tion: histologic and biochemical studies. J Am Acad Dermatol 1981;
5:411–22.
69 Hawk JM, Parrish JA. Responses of normal skin to ultraviolet
radiation. In: Photoimmunology (Parrish JA, Kriple ML, Morrison
WL, eds). New York: Plenum Medical Books, 1983; 219–60.
70 Hruza LL, Pentland AP. Mechanisms of UV-induced inﬂamma-
tion. J Invest Dermatol 1993; 100:35S–41S.
71 Gruber-Wackernagel A, Hofer A, Legat F et al. Frequency of
occurrence of polymorphic light eruption in patients treated with
photohardening and patients treated with phototherapy for other
diseases. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2019; 35:100–5.
72 Man I, Dawe RS, Ferguson J. Artiﬁcial hardening for polymorphic
light eruption: practical points from ten years’ experience. Photo-
dermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 1999; 15:96–9.
73 Perna JJ, Mannix ML, Rooney JF et al. Reactivation of latent her-
pes simplex virus infection by ultraviolet light: a human model. J
Am Acad Dermatol 1987; 17:473–8.
74 Wong GA, Kaye SB, Parslew R. Reactivation of herpes simplex
keratitis during TL01 phototherapy for psoriasis. Clin Exp Dermatol
2003; 28:453–4.
75 Green C, Lakshmipathi T, Johnson BE et al. A comparison of
the efﬁcacy and relapse rates of narrowband UVB (TL-01)
monotherapy vs. etretinate (re-TL-01) vs. etretinate-PUVA (re-
PUVA) in the treatment of psoriasis patients. Br J Dermatol 1992;
127:5–9.
76 Calzavara-Pinton PG, Zane C, Candiago E et al. Blisters on psoriatic
lesions treated with TL-01 lamps. Dermatology 2000; 200:115–19.
77 George SA, Ferguson J. Lesional blistering following narrow-band
(TL-01) UVB phototherapy for psoriasis: a report of four cases.
Br J Dermatol 1992; 127:445–6.
78 Friedland R, David M, Feinmesser M et al. Idiopathic guttate
hypomelanosis-like lesions in patients with mycosis fungoides: a
new adverse effect of phototherapy. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol
2010; 24:1026–30.
79 Friedland R, David M, Feinmesser M et al. NB-UVB (311–312
nm)-induced lentigines in patients with mycosis fungoides: a
new adverse effect of phototherapy. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol
2012; 26:1158–62.
80 Xu HH, Xiao T, Chen HD. Lentigines following narrow-band
ultraviolet B phototherapy for mycosis fungoides. Clin Exp Dermatol
2010; 35:326–8.
81 Poon F, Kang S, Chien AL. Mechanisms and treatments of pho-
toaging. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2015; 31:65–74.
82 Trautinger F. Mechanisms of photodamage of the skin and its
functional consequences for skin ageing. Clin Exp Dermatol 2001;
26:573–7.
83 Flindt-Hansen H, McFadden N, Eeg-Larsen T et al. Effect of a new
narrow-band UVB lamp on photocarcinogenesis in mice. Acta
Derm Venereol 1991; 71:245–8.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al. 307
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
84 Wulf HC, Hansen AB, Bech-Thomsen N. Differences in narrow-
band ultraviolet B and broad-spectrum ultraviolet photocarcino-
genesis in lightly pigmented hairless mice. Photodermatol Photoim-
munol Photomed 1994; 10:192–7.
85 Gibbs NK, Traynor NJ, MacKie RM et al. The phototumorigenic
potential of broad-band (270–350 nm) and narrow-band (311–
313 nm) phototherapy sources cannot be predicted by their ede-
matogenic potential in hairless mouse skin. J Invest Dermatol 1995;
104:359–63.
86 Young AR. Carcinogenicity of UVB phototherapy assessed. Lancet
1995; 345:1431–2.
87 Archier E, Devaux S, Castela E et al. Carcinogenic risks of psoralen
UV-A therapy and narrowband UV-B therapy in chronic plaque
psoriasis: a systematic literature review. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol
2012; 26 (Suppl. 3):22–31.
88 Momen S, Sarkany R. Are very high cumulative doses of narrow-
band UVB safe in vitiligo? Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2017;
33:220–1.
89 Stern RS. Genital tumors among men with psoriasis exposed to
psoralens and ultraviolet A radiation (PUVA) and ultraviolet B
radiation. The Photochemotherapy Follow-up Study. N Engl J Med
1990; 322:1093–7.
90 Abdulla FR, Breneman C, Adams B et al. Standards for genital
protection in phototherapy units. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010;
62:223–6.
91 DePry J, Brescoll J, Szczotka-Flynn L et al. Phototherapy-related
ophthalmologic disorders. Clin Dermatol 2015; 33:247–55.
92 Cejkova J, Stipek S, Crkovska J et al. UV rays, the prooxidant/an-
tioxidant imbalance in the cornea and oxidative eye damage.
Physiol Res 2004; 53:1–10.
93 Cullen AP, Perera SC. Sunlight and the human conjunctival action
spectrum. Proc SPIE 1994; 2134:24–30.
94 World Health Organization. Ultraviolet radiation ocular exposure
dosimetry of the eye: a report to the World Health Organization
and United Nations Environment Programme. WHO/EHG/95.18.
Available
at:
https://apps.who.int/iris/handle/10665/58522
(last accessed 17 May 2022).
95 Prystowsky JH, Keen MS, Rabinowitz AD et al. Present status of
eyelid phototherapy. Clinical efﬁcacy and transmittance of ultravi-
olet and visible radiation through human eyelids. J Am Acad Derma-
tol 1992; 26:607–13.
96 Otman SG, El-Dars LD, Edwards C et al. Eye protection for ultravi-
olet B phototherapy and psoralen ultraviolet A patients. Photoderma-
tol Photoimmunol Photomed 2010; 26:143–50.
97 El-Saie LT, Rabie AR, Kamel MI et al. Effect of narrowband ultra-
violet B phototherapy on serum folic acid levels in patients with
psoriasis. Lasers Med Sci 2011; 26:481–5.
98 Park KK, Murase JE. Narrowband UV-B phototherapy during preg-
nancy and folic acid depletion. Arch Dermatol 2012; 148:132–3.
99 Bangsgaard N, Rørbye C, Skov L. treating psoriasis during preg-
nancy: safety and efﬁcacy of treatments. Am J Clin Dermatol 2015;
16:389–98.
100 Ersoy-Evans S, Altaykan A, Sahin S et al. Phototherapy in child-
hood. Pediatr Dermatol 2008; 25:599–605.
101 Pasic A, Ceovic R, Lipozencic J et al. Phototherapy in pediatric
patients. Pediatr Dermatol 2003; 20:71–7.
102 Eustace K, Dolman S, Alsharqi A et al. Use of phototherapy in
children. Pediatr Dermatol 2017; 34:150–5.
103 de Jager MEA, de Jong EMGJ, van de Kerkhof PCM et al. Efﬁcacy
and safety of treatments for childhood psoriasis: a systematic lit-
erature review. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010; 62:1013–30.
104 Jain VK, Aggarwal K, Jain K et al. Narrow-band UV-B photother-
apy in childhood psoriasis. Int J Dermatol 2007; 46:320–2.
105 Tay YK, Morelli JG, Weston WL. Experience with UVB pho-
totherapy in children. Pediatr Dermatol 1996; 13:406–9.
106 Jury CS, McHenry P, Burden AD et al. Narrowband ultraviolet B
(UVB) phototherapy in children. Clin Exp Dermatol 2006; 31:196–9.
107 Al-Fouzan AS, Nanda A. UVB phototherapy in childhood psoria-
sis. Pediatr Dermatol 1995; 12:66.
108 Pavlovsky M, Baum S, Shpiro D et al. Narrow band UVB: is it
effective and safe for paediatric psoriasis and atopic dermatitis? J
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2011; 25:727–9.
109 Dayal S, Pathak K, Sahu P et al. Narrowband UV-B phototherapy
in childhood atopic dermatitis: efﬁcacy and safety. An Bras Dermatol
2017; 92:801–6.
110 Clayton TH, Clark SM, Turner D et al. The treatment of severe
atopic dermatitis in childhood with narrowband ultraviolet B
phototherapy. Clin Exp Dermatol 2007; 32:28–33.
111 Mok ZR, Koh MJ, Chong WS. Is phototherapy useful in the treat-
ment of atopic dermatitis in Asian children? A 5-year report from
Singapore. Pediatr Dermatol 2014; 31:698–702.
112 Nabi H, Shams-ud-Din S, Asad F et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of nar-
rowband ultraviolet B therapy in moderate to severe atopic der-
matitis. J Pak Assoc Dermatol 2011; 21:106–8.
113 Tintle S, Shemer A, Suarez-Fari~nas M et al. Reversal of atopic
dermatitis with narrow-band UVB phototherapy and biomark-
ers for therapeutic response. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2011; 128:
583–93.
114 V€ah€avihu K, Ala-Houhala M, Peric M et al. Narrowband ultravio-
let B treatment improves vitamin D balance and alters antimicro-
bial peptide expression in skin lesions of psoriasis and atopic
dermatitis. Br J Dermatol 2010; 163:321–8.
115 Darne S, Leech SN, Taylor AE. Narrowband ultraviolet B pho-
totherapy in children with moderate-to-severe eczema: a compar-
ative cohort study. Br J Dermatol 2014; 170:150–6.
116 Aslam A, Fullerton L, Ibbotson SH. Phototherapy and pho-
tochemotherapy for polymorphic light eruption desensitization: a
ﬁve-year case series review from a university teaching hospital.
Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2017; 33:225–7.
117 Collins P, Ferguson J. Narrow-band UVB (TL-01) phototherapy:
an effective preventative treatment for the photodermatoses. Br J
Dermatol 1995; 132:956–63.
118 Gupta G, Man I, Kemmett D. Hydroa vacciniforme: a clinical and
follow-up study of 17 cases. J Am Acad Dermatol 2000; 42:208–13.
119 Drummond A, Kane D, Bilsland D. Legal claims in Scottish
National Health Service dermatology departments 1989–2001. Br
J Dermatol 2003; 149:111–14.
120 Lovgren ML, McCrae L, Drummond A. Legal claims in Scottish
National Health Service dermatology departments, 2002–2013.
Clin Exp Dermatol 2016; 41:436–7.
121 Thomas CL, Kennedy AK, Choi-Lombardi S et al. Self-directed
tablet education session improves safety knowledge among
patients undergoing phototherapy. Br J Dermatol 2017; 176:1382–
4.
122 Rajpara AN, O’Neill JL, Nolan BV et al. Review of home pho-
totherapy. Dermatol Online J 2010; 16:2.
 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 187, pp295–308
308 BAD and BPG guidelines for UVB phototherapy 2022, V. Goulden et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/187/3/295/6966564 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
