=== PAGE 1 ===
BAD GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for the
management of people with rosacea 2021*
P.J. Hampton iD ,1 J. Berth-Jones iD ,2,3 C.E. Duarte Williamson,4 R. Hay iD ,5 T.A. Leslie,6 I. Porter,3 S. Rauz iD ,7,8,9
D. Seukeran,10 R.T. Winn,1 M. Hashme,11 L.S. Exton iD ,11 M.F. Mohd Mustapa iD ,11 and L. Manounah iD 11
on behalf of the British Association of Dermatologists’ Clinical Standards Unit
1Royal Victoria Inﬁrmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 4LP, UK
2Department of Dermatology, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, CV2 2DX, UK
3Patient representative
4King’s College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, SE5 9RS, UK
5St John’s Institute of Dermatology, Kings College London, London, SE1 9RT, UK
6Royal Free Hospital, London, NW3 2QG, UK
7University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK
8Birmingham & Midland Eye Centre, Sandwell and West Birmingham NHS Trust, Birmingham, B18 7QH, UK
9Royal College of Ophthalmologists, NW1 2HD, UK
10South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Middlesbrough, TS4 3BW, UK
11British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London, W1T 5HQ, UK
Correspondence
Philip J. Hampton
Email: philip.hampton@nhs.net; guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
13 May 2021
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
P.J.H. has received educational and travel grants (nonspeciﬁc); and research funding
from LEO Pharma, Janssen, UCB Pharma and Eli Lilly (nonspeciﬁc). J.B.-J. ran a
clinical trials unit with an interest in rosacea until 2014 (speciﬁc). C.E.D.W. has
been an invited speaker for AbbVie, Galderma and Janssen (speciﬁc); and has accepted
invitations to attend congresses and meetings related to psoriasis/biologics (nonspeciﬁc).
T.A.L. has been on advisory boards for Galderma, La Roche-Posay and Novartis (speci-
ﬁc); and has been an invited speaker for Novartis (speciﬁc). D.S. received travel and
conference sponsorship for the 2018 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology
spring conference from Galderma (speciﬁc).
This is a guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) Clini-
cal Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee. Members
of the Clinical Standards Unit that have been involved are: N.J. Levell, B. McDonald,
P. Laws, S.L. Chua, A. Daunton, H. Frow, I. Nasr, M. Hashme (Information Scien-
tist), L.S. Exton (Senior BAD Guideline Research Fellow), L. Manounah (BAD Guide-
line Research Fellow) and M.F. Mohd Mustapa (Director of Clinical Standards).
NICE has accredited the process used by the British Association of Dermatologists to produce
clinical guidelines. The renewed accreditation is valid until 31 May 2021 and applies to
guidance produced using the process described in Updated guidance for writing a British
Association of Dermatologists clinical guidance – the adoption of the GRADE methodology
2016. The original accreditation term began on 12 May 2010. Accreditation renewal in
progress at time of publication. More information on accreditation can be viewed at
www.nice.org.uk/accreditation
DOI 10.1111/bjd.20485
*Plain language summary available online
Linked Comment: J.S.S. Ho and Y. Asai. Br J Dermatol 2021;
185:689–690.
1.0
Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the management of rosa-
cea. The document aims to: (i) offer an appraisal of all rele-
vant literature up to February 2020 focusing on any key
developments; (ii) address important, practical clinical ques-
tions relating to the primary guideline objective; and (iii) pro-
vide guideline recommendations and, if appropriate, research
recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in primary care and
in the clinic, in addition to an updated Patient Information
Leaﬂet [available on the British Association of Dermatologists’
(BAD)
website:
www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-
treatments/].
1.1. Exclusions
This guideline does not cover the diagnosis of rosacea. The
evidence supporting the recommendations does not include
evidence that is speciﬁc to children.
2.0 Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology,1 with reference to the Appraisal of
Guidelines Research and Evaluation (AGREE II) instrument
(www.agreetrust.org)2
and
Grading
of
Recommendations
Assessment, Development and Evaluation [GRADE; Appendix L
(see
Supporting
Information)].3
Recommendations
were
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
725
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
developed for implementation in the UK National Health Ser-
vice (NHS).
The guideline development group (GDG), which consisted of
consultant dermatologists, a consultant ophthalmologist, patient
representatives and a technical team (consisting of a guideline
research fellow and project manager who provided method-
ological and technical support), established several clinical ques-
tions pertinent to the scope of the guideline and a set of
outcome measures of importance to patients, ranked by the
patient representatives according to the GRADE methodology
[section 2.1 and Appendix A (see Supporting Information)].
A systematic literature search of PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase
and the Cochrane databases was conducted to identify key
articles on rosacea up to February 2020; search terms and
strategies
are
detailed
in
the
supporting
information
(Appendix M; see Supporting Information). Additional refer-
ences relevant to the topic were also isolated from citations in
reviewed literature. Data extraction and critical appraisal, data
synthesis, evidence summaries, lists of excluded studies and
the
Preferred
Reporting
Items
for
Systematic
Reviews
(PRISMA) diagram were prepared by the technical team. Evi-
dence from included studies was graded according to the
GRADE system (high, moderate, low or very-low certainty).
Recommendations are based on evidence drawn from system-
atic reviews of the literature pertaining to the clinical ques-
tions identiﬁed, following discussions with the entire GDG,
and factoring in all items that would affect the strength of the
evidence according to the GRADE approach (i.e. balance
between desirable and undesirable effects, certainty of evi-
dence, patient values and preference, and resource allocation).
All GDG members contributed towards drafting and/reviewing
the narratives and supporting information.
The summary of ﬁndings with forest plots (Appendix B; see
Supporting Information), tables Linking the Evidence To the
Recommendations
[LETR;
Appendix
C
(see
Supporting
Information)], GRADE evidence proﬁles indicating the cer-
tainty of evidence (Appendix D; see Supporting Information),
summary of included studies (Appendix E see Supporting
Information), narrative ﬁndings from comparative without
data in an extractable format (Appendix F; see Supporting
Information), narrative ﬁndings from within-patient studies
(Appendix G; see Supporting Information), narrative ﬁndings
from non-comparative studies (Appendix H; see Supporting
Information), critical appraisal of the included systematic
reviews (Appendix I; see Supporting Information), PRISMA
ﬂow diagram (Appendix J; see Supporting Information) and
list of excluded studies (Appendix K; see Supporting Informa-
tion) are detailed in the Supporting Information. The strength
of recommendation is expressed by the wording and symbols
shown in Table 1.
2.1. Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established several clinical questions pertinent to
the scope of the guideline. See Appendix A (Supporting
Information) for the full review protocol. The GDG also
established two sets of outcome measures of importance to
patients: one set for topical and systemic treatments; and one
for procedural therapies [light, laser and intense pulsed light
(IPL)], which were agreed and ranked by the patient repre-
sentatives according to the GRADE methodology.4 Outcomes
ranked 7, 8 and 9 are critical for decision-making; those
ranked 4, 5 and 6 are important but not critical for decision-
making; and those ranked 3, 2 and 1 are least important for
decision-making.
Systematic review question 1: topical therapies
In people with rosacea what is the clinical effectiveness and
safety of topical therapies, compared to each other or pla-
cebo?
Table 1 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbols
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an
intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, e.g. ‘use’,
‘provide’, ‘take’,
‘investigate’, etc.)
↑↑
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients
would choose the intervention, while only a small proportion
would not; for clinicians, most of their patients would receive the
intervention; for policy makers, it would be a useful performance
indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an
intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced; most
patients would choose the intervention but many would not;
clinicians would need to consider the pros and cons for the
patient in the context of the evidence; for policy makers it would
be a poor performance indicator where variability in practice is
expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation
against the use of an
intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most patients
would not choose the intervention, while only a small proportion
would; for clinicians, most of their patients would not receive the
intervention
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
726 BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
Critical
Objective response to treatment scoring systems
• Reduction in lesion counts
8
• Reduction in erythema
8
• Improvement in quality of life (QoL)
7
• Adverse events and tolerability
7
Important
• Physician Global Assessment (PGA)
6
• Relapse/recurrence
6
• Patient global assessment
6
• Reduction in ﬂushing
6
Systematic review question 2: systemic therapies
In people with rosacea what is the clinical effectiveness and
safety of systemic therapies, compared to topicals, each other
or placebo?
Critical
Objective response to treatment scoring systems
• Reduction in lesion counts
8
• Reduction in erythema
8
• Improvement in QoL
7
• Adverse events and tolerability
7
Important
• PGA
6
• Relapse/recurrence
6
• Patient global assessment
6
• Reduction in ﬂushing
6
Systematic review question 3: procedural therapies
In people with rosacea what is the clinical effectiveness and
safety of light, laser and IPL treatments?
Critical
Objective response to treatment scoring systems
• Reduction in erythema
8
• Reduction in telangiectasia
8
• Improvement in QoL
7
• Adverse events and tolerability
7
Important
• PGA
6
• Patient global assessment
6
• Relapse/recurrence
6
• Reduction in ﬂushing
6
3.0 Summary of recommendations
The following recommendations and ratings were agreed
upon unanimously by the core members of the GDG and
patient representatives. For further information on the word-
ing used for recommendations and strength of recommenda-
tion ratings, see section 2.0. The GDG is aware of the lack of
high-certainty evidence for some of these recommendations,
therefore strong recommendations, marked with an asterisk
(*), are based on available evidence, as well as consensus
within the GDG and specialist experience. Good practice point
(GPP) recommendations are derived from informal consensus.
General recommendations
R1 (GPP) Advise people with rosacea to limit exposure to
known aggravating factors such as alcohol, sun exposure, hot
drinks and spicy food.
R2 (GPP) Provide a patient information leaﬂet (www.skin-
healthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-treatments/) to people with
rosacea.
R3 (GPP) When characterizing the clinical subtypes and
symptoms of rosacea, classify the patient according to the phe-
notypes identiﬁed by Gallo et al.5 This approach encompasses
the objective clinical signs and the subjective symptoms expe-
rienced by the patient with rosacea. Diagnostic phenotypes
include characteristic ﬁxed centrofacial erythema or phymatous
changes. Other features include ﬂushing, papules or pustules,
telangiectasia, ocular changes, burning or stinging sensations,
oedema and dryness.
R4 (GPP) Take into account the older classiﬁcation system for
rosacea, which was based on clinical signs: erythematotelang-
iectatic, papulopustular, phymatous or ocular. Characterize the
clinical subtypes and symptoms of rosacea affecting the person
according to these clinical signs.
R5 (GPP) Whenever possible, avoid long-term use of oral
antibiotics in people with rosacea (i.e. antibiotic stewardship).
The optimal duration of antibiotic therapy is not known. In
acne, a lack of response after 2–3 months of antibiotic therapy
is usually regarded as treatment failure, and a similar duration
to establish beneﬁt may be appropriate in rosacea. When
antibiotics are working, the pros and cons of longer-term
treatment need to be evaluated carefully.
R6 (GPP) Advise that some people with rosacea ﬁnd it beneﬁ-
cial to wash their skin with emollients, moisturize regularly
and use appropriate sun protection. Soaps and washing prod-
ucts that contain detergent are irritant in some people and
should be avoided if they worsen the symptoms.
R7 (GPP) Consider skin camouﬂage in people with rosacea
‘whose main clinical feature is’ OR who are ‘presenting with’
intractable erythema.
R8 (GPP) Consider the need for psychological support or psy-
chiatric interventions in people with rosacea who experience
anxiety or depression. Initial assessment in primary care is
often appropriate.
Topical therapies
R9 (↑↑) Offer either ivermectin, metronidazole or azelaic acid as
ﬁrst-line topical treatment options to people with papulopustular
rosacea. Discuss the potential for irritancy of different products
and formulations prior to prescribing the topical agent.
R10 (↑) Consider topical minocycline foam in people with
papulopustular rosacea (minocycline foam is currently not
available in the UK).
R11 (↑) Consider topical brimonidine in people with rosacea
where the main presenting feature is facial erythema. Warn
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al. 727
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
patients that there are reports that redness may ﬂare after dis-
continuation of treatment.
R12 (↑) Consider topical oxymetazoline in people with rosa-
cea where the main presenting feature is facial erythema.
Warn patients that there are reports that redness may ﬂare
after discontinuation of treatment (oxymetazoline is currently
not available in the UK).
Systemic therapies
R13 (↑↑) Offer* an oral antibiotic as a ﬁrst-line treatment
option for more severe papulopustular rosacea. Options (in
alphabetical order) include azithromycin, clarithromycin, doxy-
cycline 40 mg (modiﬁed release) daily, doxycycline 100 mg
daily, erythromycin, lymecycline and oxytetracycline. These
antibiotics (especially tetracyclines) are considered safe and have
been prescribed for rosacea for decades. There is insufﬁcient evi-
dence to establish the superiority of one over another, especially
in the absence of head-to-head trials or a network meta-analysis.
Currently, only the modiﬁed-release formulation of doxycycline
is licensed speciﬁcally for papulopustular rosacea in the UK.
R14 (↑↑) Avoid minocycline in people with rosacea due to
potential side-effects, unless there are no other treatment
options.
R15 (↑) Consider intermittent courses of low-dose isotretinoin
(e.g. 025 mg kg–1) in people with persistent and severe rosa-
cea. Discuss the potential side-effects and teratogenicity.
R16 (↑) Consider oral propranolol in people with rosacea
where the main presenting feature is transient facial erythema
(ﬂushing).
Procedural therapies
R17
(↑)
Consider
pulsed
dye
laser,
neodymium-doped
yttrium aluminium garnet (Nd:YAG) laser or intense pulsed
light in people with rosacea where the main presenting feature
is persistent facial erythema. An appropriately qualiﬁed laser
practitioner should be consulted to ensure safe and high-qual-
ity practice.
R18 (↑) Consider nasal debulking by laser ablation or surgical
intervention (dependent on local expertise) in people with
signiﬁcant rhinophyma.
Ocular therapies
R19 (↑↑) Advise* people with ocular rosacea to minimize expo-
sure to aggravating factors such as air conditioning, excessive
central heating, smoky atmospheres and periocular cosmetics.
R20 (↑↑) Identify* and modify/eliminate systemic medica-
tions that could be triggering eye dryness in people with ocu-
lar rosacea (e.g. antidepressants and anxiolytics).
R21 (↑↑) Offer* warm compresses using proprietary lid-
warming devices and lid hygiene with homemade bicarbonate
solution or commercially available lid wipes.
R22 (↑↑) Offer* over-the-counter ocular lubricants or liposo-
mal sprays to alleviate symptoms in people with ocular rosa-
cea, ensuring preservative-free preparations are used if using >
6 times daily. Increasing humidity using humidiﬁers can help
to reduce tear evaporation.
R23 (↑↑) Refer* people with ocular rosacea to an ophthalmolo-
gist if they are (i) experiencing eye discomfort, sticky eye dis-
charge persisting for > 12 months despite frequent (> 6 times
daily) topical lubricant use and adequate lid hygiene; or (ii)
experiencing symptoms such as reduced vision, pain on eye
movement and pain that keeps the patient awake at night.
Summary of future research recommendations
The following list outlines future research recommendations
(FRRs).
FRR1 A prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) investi-
gating the effect of topical ivermectin on ocular rosacea.
FRR2 A prospective RCT investigating various interventions
(topical/systemic/procedural) for transient erythema (ﬂushing).
FRR3 A study investigating the psychological impact of rhino-
phyma, the effect of treatment and the optimal choice of sur-
gical or laser treatments.
FRR4 A study investigating other acaricidal drugs currently
used in veterinary practice, such as moxidectin and afoxolaner
against Demodex.
FRR5 A cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for people
with rosacea within a UK setting.
FRR6 Investigations of the aetiology, pathophysiology and psy-
chological issues of rosacea, and treatment of the sensory symp-
toms of rosacea, sometimes referred to as neurogenic rosacea.
4.0 Algorithm
The recommendations, discussions in the LETR (Appendix C;
see supporting information) and consensus specialist experience
were used to inform the algorithm/pathway of care (Figure 1).
5.0 Background
5.1. Deﬁnition
Rosacea is a chronic disorder that predominantly affects the
central areas of the face (nose, forehead, cheeks and chin). It
is characterized by frequent ﬂushing, persistent erythema and
telangiectasia, and episodes of inﬂammation during which
swelling, papules and pustules are evident. These symptoms
are frequently accompanied by periocular inﬂammation and
are sometimes associated with the later development of cuta-
neous swellings known as phymas.
5.2. Classiﬁcation
Rosacea is a clinical diagnosis and can be classiﬁed according to
the predominant clinical features. In this guideline, we have
continued to use the traditional approach to the classiﬁcation of
rosacea, which maps very well to most clinical trials. Some
authors have suggested that a phenotype approach to the classiﬁ-
cation of rosacea could have some advantages, and it will
become clear over time which system is more useful.5 It is not
clear to what degree the clinical classiﬁcation of rosacea corre-
sponds
to
any
underlying
difference
in
aetiology
and
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
728 BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
pathogenesis, or indeed whether the clinical variants represent
separate but associated entities. The diverse clinical features,
which often occur in combination, may also occur in isolation,
suggesting that these may be different clinical entities that com-
monly
coexist.
Notwithstanding
the
considerable
clinical
overlap, it is possible, and clinically convenient, to classify most
cases of rosacea into the following four groups in accordance
with the clinical presentation. The clinical value of this classiﬁca-
tion is that it is broadly reﬂected in different approaches to treat-
ment, although there is, again, considerable overlap.
Figure 1 Management pathway for people with rosacea. Nd:YAG, neodymium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet; OTC, over-the-counter.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al. 729
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
1. Erythematotelangiectatic rosacea (vascular rosacea) In
these cases, the predominant features are vascular (ﬂushing,
erythema and telangiectasia). Flushing is often noticed ﬁrst
and progresses gradually to persisting erythema and increas-
ingly prominent telangiectasia. Factors that trigger ﬂushing
include emotion and stress,6 hot drinks,7 alcohol and other
vasodilating drugs,8 and spicy food. The ﬂushing and ery-
thema are often accompanied by a burning sensation.9
2. Papulopustular rosacea (inﬂammatory rosacea) In these
cases, the predominant features are inﬂammatory lesions
(eruptions of papules and pustules). In contrast to acne, the
lesions are usually painless, not consistently associated with
hair follicles and not accompanied by comedones.
3. Ocular rosacea The predominant features of ocular rosacea
include blepharitis, episcleritis, meibomian gland dysfunc-
tion, conjunctival scarring and corneal vascularization. Ini-
tially, there is a sensation of grittiness, burning or irritability
of the eyes, accompanied by visible reddening of the eyelid
margins and conjunctiva. The blepharoconjunctivitis is asso-
ciated with a predominantly evaporative dry eye accompa-
nied by aqueous deﬁciency, which results in an unstable tear
ﬁlm and a static or slowly progressive cicatrising conjunctivi-
tis.10,11 Ocular rosacea may be seen in isolation or occur
before the onset of cutaneous features, especially in chil-
dren.12 The condition may be unilateral or asymmetrical.12
4. Phymatous rosacea (mainly rhinophyma) This most fre-
quently manifests as rhinophyma, a bulbous, rugose, soft-
tissue swelling of the nose, although similar lesions occur
less often in other facial locations including the ears (oto-
phyma), forehead (metophyma) and chin (gnathophyma).
5.3. Epidemiology
Rosacea is a very common disease. It is predominantly a dis-
ease of young-to-middle-aged adults but is seen in patients of
all ages, including, occasionally, in children. Estimates of
prevalence vary considerably, but this is certainly a very com-
mon skin disease, estimated in 2018 to affect 55% of the glo-
bal adult population.13 Women are more commonly affected
than men, especially within the age range of 36–50 years. It
is considered more common in individuals with less deeply
pigmented skin (Fitzpatrick skin types I–III) than in those with
more deeply pigmented skin (Fitzpatrick skin types IV–VI),
although it does occur in all skin types. The development of
rhinophyma is more common in men. Symptoms of ocular
rosacea are also common, although these are also often
encountered in patients without other features of the disease,
and as the symptoms in these cases are indistinguishable from
those of ‘ocular rosacea’, it is probably impossible to ascertain
the prevalence of the latter as a distinct entity.
5.4. Aetiology and pathogenesis
The cause, or causes, of rosacea remain uncertain, and both
aetiology and pathogenesis seem likely to differ between the
various categories.
It has been proposed that damage to dermal connective tis-
sue, often caused by solar irradiation, may be the initiating
event.14 This may result in dysfunction of the unsupported
facial blood vessels with consequent endothelial damage, leak-
age, oedema and inﬂammation. Others have argued for a cen-
tral role of abnormal vascular reactivity.15
It has also been proposed that lowered neural thresholds for
reaction to noxious stimuli may result in neurogenic inﬂamma-
tion.9 Sensitivity to noxious stimuli, including heat, is increased
in involved skin, regardless of whether vascular or inﬂamma-
tory features predominate.9 This may explain the burning sen-
sation frequently reported by patients with rosacea.
Changes in redox status, with reduced levels of superoxide
dismutase have been observed in the skin in cases of inﬂam-
matory rosacea.16
Abnormally high levels of the endogenous antimicrobial
peptide cathelicidin have been demonstrated in the facial skin
of patients with rosacea.17Cathelicidin and related peptides
trigger inﬂammation by promoting leucocyte chemotaxis and
angiogenesis. Elevated levels of cathelicidin may be a sec-
ondary phenomenon, perhaps related to the presence of Demo-
dex spp. or microorganisms in the skin. Upregulation of
various elements of the innate skin immune system such as
Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and the NOD-, LRR- and pyrin
domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3), which is an intracellu-
lar sensor that detects a broad range of microbial motifs,
endogenous danger signals and environmental irritants, have
been reported.18 Transient vanilloid receptor potential ion
channel 1 (TRVP1) has a key role in temperature perception
and is signiﬁcantly overexpressed in erythematotelangiectatic
rosacea.19
Because there is usually no associated sweating, it has been
argued that ﬂushing in rosacea is mediated by released vasoac-
tive substances rather than by a neural mechanism.20 Numer-
ous possible vasoactive mediators have been proposed, but
none has yet been ﬁrmly and consistently linked to the patho-
genesis of rosacea.
Rosacea has often been linked with gastrointestinal symp-
tomatology, although there is no conclusive evidence to sup-
port this. A possible role for Helicobacter pylori, infection of the
gastric mucosa has been the subject of particular controversy,
but in controlled studies prevalence rates have sometimes been
similar to controls.21–24 The infection may be more prevalent
in patients with papulopustular rosacea than those with ery-
thematotelangiectatic disease.25 Certain chemicals found in
common foods have been shown to stimulate sensory nerves.
These include capsaicin (chilli) and resveratrol (a phenol
found in red wine).26
A potential role has often been proposed for the follicle
mites Demodex folliculorum and Demodex brevis in the pathogenesis
of rosacea. Infestation with these mites is extremely common
in the general population, reaching up to 100% of patients in
some studies.25 Eruptions strongly resembling rosacea and
associated with the presence of large numbers of D. folliculorum
have been reported under the title of ‘rosacea-like demodico-
sis’.
These
cases
have
improved
following
treatment
to
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
730 BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
eradicate the mite. Papulopustular rosacea has also been
demonstrated to respond to this therapeutic approach.27 It is
well established that there are increased numbers of D. folliculo-
rum in the facial skin of patients with rosacea relative to con-
trols.28–34
Demodex
mites
have
also
been
histologically
demonstrated in the dermis associated with an inﬂammatory
response and undergoing phagocytosis by multinucleate giant
cells. This phenomenon has been observed both in localized
and more widespread facial eruptions resembling rosacea.35,36
Furthermore, D. brevis is often present in the eyelid in hair fol-
licles, eyelash follicles and meibomian glands,37,38and is often
reported in association with periocular pathology, including
blepharitis and meibomianitis.39–41 These observations would
suggest that the presence of Demodex mites might also play a
role in some of the ophthalmic features of rosacea. The mites
are associated with bacteria, which may also provoke an
inﬂammatory response.
5.5. Impact on quality of life
Rosacea is a facial dermatosis and therefore easily visible. It
can cause signiﬁcant embarrassment and handicap to those
who suffer from it. This impact has been quantiﬁed in a
limited and heterogeneous range of studies. A 2014 review
identiﬁed 12 studies in which the effect of rosacea on QoL
was evaluated using validated instruments. The Dermatology
Life Quality Index (DLQI) was the most frequently used
instrument (in seven of the studies identiﬁed). DLQI scores
ranged from 41 to 173, depending substantially on the
population studied, with the highest scores being recorded
in a study examining only severe cases.42 Another review
that year found a similarly wide range of reported severity
of impairment, with DLQI scores in rosacea ranging from 2
to 177.43 In a 2019 study of the impact of facial ery-
thema, the mean (SD) DLQI score was 52 (60), and the
impairment in QoL was strongly correlated with the severity
of the centrofacial erythema.44 When compared with viti-
ligo, the mean DLQI score was 43 in patients with rosacea,
and 7 in those with vitiligo. Severe QoL impairments (DLQI
>
10),
were
less
frequent
(110%)
than
in
vitiligo
(246%).45
5.6. Natural history
Rosacea usually follows a ﬂuctuating course. The eventual dura-
tion and outcomes are variable, and there is a paucity of pub-
lished data. In a survey of 92 patients ≥10 years after a diagnosis
of rosacea, 48 responded and 25 still had active disease, while 23
had cleared.46 In patients in whom the rosacea had resolved, the
duration of the disease had ranged from 1 to 25 years.
Treatment of rosacea can effectively suppress the symptoms
and signs of the disease, but there is no evidence that this is
curative. In a follow-up study of 70 patients after 6 months of
treatment with tetracycline, two-thirds had relapsed after a
mean follow-up period of 26 years.47
5.7. Differential diagnosis
Acne vulgaris and rosacea are quite distinct diseases, although
there are occasional patients in whom the distinction is difﬁ-
cult and, as both conditions are very common, it is to be
expected that, by chance, both will often occur in the same
patient. Acne vulgaris affects a younger age group and often
has an extensive distribution over the face, neck and trunk,
whereas extrafacial rosacea is rare. Typical acne vulgaris lacks
the redness, telangiectasia and ﬂushing of rosacea, while rosa-
cea lacks the comedones and seborrhoea characteristic of acne
vulgaris.
Seborrhoeic dermatitis is often observed in association with
rosacea and is therefore a potential cause of confusion, espe-
cially when the features of one disease predominate at one
consultation and features of the other at the next. However,
the typical pattern of seborrhoeic dermatitis differs markedly
from rosacea. The former, but not the latter, characteristically
involves the scalp, the retroauricular area, the eyelids and the
nasolabial folds. Scaling is not normally a feature of rosacea
but is the rule in seborrhoeic dermatitis.
Lupus erythematosus is an occasional cause of concern. Dis-
coid lupus typically causes scarring, scaling and follicular
plugging, which are not features of rosacea. However,
patients are often referred to the dermatology clinic with a
‘butterﬂy’ erythema and a tentative diagnosis of systemic
lupus. The latter is not pustular and is usually associated with
systemic symptoms. In some cases, lupus serology and a skin
biopsy for histological and immunoﬂuorescent examination
may be necessary.
Carcinoid syndrome is another cause of ﬂushing often diag-
nosed after a signiﬁcant delay from the onset of symptoms,
and may initially be mistaken for rosacea. Atypical (pro-
longed, generalized or severe) ﬂushing, or the presence of
additional symptoms (sweating, bronchospasm, abdominal
pain, diarrhoea) should prompt measurement of urinary 5-
hydroxyindoleacetic acid and further investigation if suspi-
cion persists.
Nasal sarcoidosis (lupus pernio) superﬁcially resembles rhino-
phyma. However, sarcoidosis often affects the nasal septum
(causing nasal obstruction). The surface of the thickened nose
in lupus pernio, although telangiectatic, is generally smooth,
lacking the rugose peau d’orange surface that characterizes rhino-
phyma. Patients with lupus pernio almost invariably have evi-
dence of multisystem disease.
5.8. Complications
Lymphoedema is a relatively rare complication of rosacea that
can develop over the face and ears. In time, this may
develop into a coarsening of the features known as leonine
facies. A characteristic pattern of lymphoedema of the upper
half of the face developing as a complication of chronic
rosacea has been termed chronic upper facial erythematous
oedema or Morbihan disease. The orbital skin is often
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al. 731
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
affected, resulting in severe eyelid swelling and sometimes
ectropion.
Malignancy, most frequently basal cell carcinoma, may be
seen as a complication of rhinophyma. This can be difﬁcult to
diagnose owing to the phymatous distortion of normal skin
contours, so it is important to be alert to this risk.
5.9. Facial dermatoses possibly related to rosacea
Perioral dermatitis (perioriﬁcial dermatitis) is sometimes regarded as
a variant of rosacea. It presents as a persistent erythematous
eruption of tiny papules and papulopustules that appears
abruptly in the nasolabial areas and spreads rapidly to the
perioral zone, sparing the lip margins. Occasionally, it may
spread to the forehead, eyelids and glabella. Pruritus, burning
and soreness are prominent symptoms. The lesions consist of
monomorphic small papules and pustules occurring against a
background of redness and variable scaling. The papules may
occur in recurrent crops and are usually less substantial than
those of rosacea. A similar eruption involving the eyelids and
periorbital skin has been termed periocular dermatitis. It
almost entirely affects young adult females, the age range
tending to be somewhat younger than that of rosacea, and
occurrence in childhood more frequent. Topical corticosteroid
therapy is known to be an important aetiological factor. Occa-
sionally, this can result from inadvertent transfer during topi-
cal corticosteroid treatment to other regions such as the
hands. The use of inhaled corticosteroids for treating asthma,
particularly from nebulizers, may also cause perioral dermati-
tis. Periocular dermatitis may be caused by corticosteroid eye
ointment.48 A variety of primary irritant and allergic contact
factors and cosmetic products have been proposed to play a
role, but this has not been substantiated.49 A high prevalence
of atopy has been reported in patients with perioral dermati-
tis.50 Perioral dermatitis tends to resolve if exposure to topical
corticosteroid stops, although this may take some weeks or
months. Less often, the condition may persist, continuously or
intermittently.
Acne agminata (lupus miliaris disseminatus faciei, acnitis and facial
idiopathic granulomas with regressive evolution [FIGURE]) is seen
mainly in adolescents and young adults of either sex. It pre-
sents as multiple, monomorphic, symmetrical, reddish-brown
papules on the chin, forehead, cheeks and eyelids.51 The
lesions may cluster around the mouth or on the eyelids or
eyebrows so that the term ‘agminata’ is appropriate, although
– paradoxically – in many cases, the lesions are widely dis-
seminated around the face and the term ‘disseminatus’ seems
more applicable. Diascopy of larger lesions often reveals an
apple jelly nodule-like appearance, indicating their granuloma-
tous histology. This eruption tends to be self-limiting, resolv-
ing completely over a few months or up to 2 years. In some
cases, there is scarring. The clinical picture in classical cases is
distinctive and does not closely resemble rosacea.
The aetiology remains unknown. It has been considered by
some to be a variant of rosacea. While the distribution of
lesions is similar, the natural history and the tendency to affect
males and females approximately equally, argue against this
being a form of rosacea. It can be difﬁcult to distinguish from
micropapular sarcoidosis.
Granulomatous perioral dermatitis in children (facial Afro-Caribbean
childhood eruption [FACE], Gianotti-type perioral dermatitis, granulo-
matous perioriﬁcial dermatitis and sarcoid-like granulomatous dermati-
tis) is seen in prepubertal children and may represent a
juvenile form of perioral dermatitis or of acne agminata. It is
considered relatively common in Afro-Caribbean children.52
This is a papular eruption generally conﬁned to the face, with
lesions clustering around the mouth, eyes, nose and ears.53,54 In
contrast to perioral dermatitis it does not spare the narrow zone
bordering the lips, and pustules are not seen. The histology has
been variously described as showing nonspeciﬁc inﬂammation
with hyperkeratosis or, more often, as granulomatous, with the
inﬂammatory changes often, but not invariably, being perifollic-
ular. Blepharitis has occasionally been present.
Complete resolution usually occurs after a few months –
either spontaneously or in response to treatment. In some
cases, small, pitted scars have been reported.
Pyoderma faciale (rosacea conglobata, rosacea fulminans) is a ﬂorid
eruption of pustules and cystic swellings that may be intercon-
nected by sinuses, conﬁned to the face, with an absence of
comedones.55,56The latter two features distinguish this entity
from acne conglobata. However, it remains possible that this
is an unusual variant of acne vulgaris. This is a distressing dis-
ease, often followed by severe scarring. Pyoderma faciale
mainly affects adults, and most frequently females (in contrast
to acne conglobata). There is often no preceding history of
acne or rosacea. It is usually a fulminant eruption (rosacea ful-
minans). Marked erythema and oedema are usually present.
Some cases have developed during pregnancy, suggesting that
hormonal factors may play a role. Occasional cases may arise
as a side-effect of medication. Culture of the purulent dis-
charge or needle aspiration may be sterile or may yield a
growth of commensal organisms, including Staphylococcus epider-
midis and Propionibacterium acnes. This investigation can be helpful
in excluding Gram-negative infection. Signiﬁcant scarring
develops in many cases.
Steroid rosacea is the term used for the induction of symp-
toms
closely
resembling
erythematotelangiectatic
rosacea
and/or inﬂammatory rosacea by the application of topical
corticosteroids.57 This is usually associated with the use of
potent and very potent corticosteroids, although less potent
compounds can occasionally cause similar problems. This
entity is clearly associated with the use of topical corticos-
teroids, and it is not clear whether there are mechanisms in
the pathogenesis shared with rosacea. Topical corticosteroids
may also induce features of acne vulgaris, and these may
coexist in the same patients.
Facial dysaesthesia is a clinical presentation in which sensory
disturbance predominates and is often out of proportion to
any visible abnormality.58 The most common complaint is a
severe facial burning sensation, usually occurring intermit-
tently, and sometimes triggered by contact, temperature
changes or particular foods. Facial hypersensitivity is often a
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
732 BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
feature of rosacea, but in some cases appears to occur with
minimal or no other features of that disease. These symptoms
are sometimes referred to as neurogenic rosacea.
6.0 Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive people with rosacea, is there clear
documentation of:
1. A trial of topical ivermectin in those on long-term antibi-
otics?
2. Advice to avoid aggravating factors such as alcohol, sun
exposure, hot drinks or spicy food?
3. Discussion of the pros and cons of intermittent low-dose
isotretinoin as an alternative to long-term antibiotics, in
whom there is no contraindication?
4. Offering of propranolol in those with symptomatic ﬂushing,
in whom there is no contraindication?
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient and
allow
benchmarking
between
different
units.
However,
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months
(Appendix N; see Supporting Information).
7.0 Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The draft document and supporting information was made
available to the BAD membership, British Dermatological
Nursing Group, Primary Care Dermatological Society, British
Society for Medical Dermatology, British Society for Dermato-
logical Surgery and the Royal College of Ophthalmologists for
comments, which were actively considered by the GDG. Fol-
lowing further review, the ﬁnalized version was sent for peer
review by the Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD (made up of
the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee) prior to submission
for publication.
8.0 Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results of
future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Additionally, it is acknowledged that
limited cost-effectiveness data in the context of the UK health-
care setting may affect the availability of a given therapy
within the NHS, despite evidence of efﬁcacy. Failure to adhere
to these guidelines should not necessarily be considered negli-
gent, nor should adherence to these recommendations consti-
tute a defence against a claim of negligence. Limiting the
systematic review to English language references was a prag-
matic decision, but the authors recognize that this may
exclude some important information published in other lan-
guages.
9.0 Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2026; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to patient representatives Mr Ian Porter
and Dr John Berth-Jones for their input in formulating the
clinical questions, ranking of the outcomes, reviewing of the
evidence and subsequent draft guideline. We are also very
grateful to Drs Edward Seaton and Iaisha Ali, and Professors
Alison Layton, Frank Powell and Malcolm Greaves (consultant
dermatologists), and Mr Jeremy Prydal (consultant ophthal-
mologist) for their involvement during the early stages of the
guideline development process, and to Miss Alina Constantin
(BAD Guideline Research Fellow) for assisting with the ﬁnal
stages, as well as all those who commented on the draft dur-
ing the consultation period.
References
1 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Updated guidance for
writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline:
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J Dermatol 2017;
176:44–51.
2 Brouwers M, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in healthcare.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–E842.
3 GRADE Workin Group. GRADE. Available at: http://www.grade
workinggroup.org/ (last accessed 10 May 2021).
4 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging consen-
sus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommenda-
tions. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
5 Gallo RL, Granstein RD, Kang S et al. Standard classiﬁcation and
pathophysiology of rosacea: the 2017 update by the National Rosa-
cea Society Expert Committee. J Am Acad Dermatol 2018; 78:148–55.
6 Whitlock FA. Psychosomatic aspects of rosacea. Br J Dermatol 1961;
73:137–48.
7 Wilkin JK. Oral thermal-induced ﬂushing in erythematotelang-
iectatic rosacea. J Invest Dermatol 1981; 76:15–8.
8 Bernstein JE, Soltani K. Alcohol-induced rosacea ﬂushing blocked
by naloxone. Br J Dermatol 1982; 107:59–61.
9 Guzman-Sanchez DA, Ishiuji Y, Patel T et al. Enhanced skin blood
ﬂow and sensitivity to noxious heat stimuli in papulopustular rosa-
cea. J Am Acad Dermatol 2007; 57:800–5.
10 Meschig R, Melnik B, Plewig G. Opthalmic Complications of Rosacea.
London: Martin Dunitz, 1989.
11 Gudmundsen KJ, O’Donnell BF, Powell FC. Schirmer testing for dry
eyes in patients with rosacea. J Am Acad Dermatol 1992; 26:211–4.
12 Nazir SA, Murphy S, Siatkowski RM et al. Ocular rosacea in child-
hood. Am J Ophthalmol 2004; 137:138–44.
13 Gether L, Overgaard LK, Egeberg A et al. Incidence and prevalence
of rosacea: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Dermatol
2018; 179:282–9.
14 Marks R. Rosacea: hopeless hypothesis, marvelous myths and der-
mal disorganisation. In: Acne and Related Disorders: Proceedings of an Inter-
national Symposium, Cardiff 1988 (Marks R, Plewig G, eds). London:
Martin Dunitz, 1989; 293–9.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al. 733
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
15 Wilkin JK. Rosacea. Pathophysiology and treatment. Arch Dermatol
1994; 130:359–62.
16 Oztas MO, Balk M, Ogus E et al. The role of free oxygen radicals
in the aetiopathogenesis of rosacea. Clin Exp Dermatol 2003;
28:188–92.
17 Yamasaki K, Di Nardo A, Bardan A et al. Increased serine protease
activity and cathelicidin promotes skin inﬂammation in rosacea.
Nat Med 2007; 13:975–80.
18 Melnik BC. Rosacea: the blessing of the Celts – an approach to
pathogenesis through translational research. Acta Derm Venereol 2016;
96:147–56.
19 Sulk M, Seeliger S, Aubert J et al. Distribution and expression of
non-neuronal transient receptor potential (TRPV) ion channels in
rosacea. J Invest Dermatol 2012; 132:1253–62.
20 No authors listed. Rosacea in hot water. Lancet 1981; 1:647.
21 Sharma VK, Lynn A, Kaminski M et al. A study of the prevalence
of Helicobacter pylori infection and other markers of upper gastroin-
testinal tract disease in patients with rosacea. Am J Gastroenterol
1998; 93:220–2.
22 Jones MP, Knable AL Jr, White MJ et al. Helicobacter pylori in rosacea:
lack of an association. Arch Dermatol 1998; 134:511.
23 Utas S, Ozbakir O, Turasan A et al. Helicobacter pylori eradication
treatment reduces the severity of rosacea. J Am Acad Dermatol 1999;
40:433–5.
24 Schneider M, Skinner RBJ, Rosenberg EW. Serologic determination
of Helicobacter pylori in rosacea patients and controls. Clin Res 1992;
40:831A.
25 Diaz C, O’Callaghan CJ, Khan A et al. Rosacea: a cutaneous marker
of Helicobacter pylori infection? Results of a pilot study. Acta Derm
Venereol 2003; 83:282–6.
26 Park K, Elias PM, Hupe M et al. Resveratrol stimulates sphingosine-
1-phosphate signaling of cathelicidin production. J Invest Dermatol
2013; 133:1942–9.
27 Taieb A, Ortonne JP, Ruzicka T et al. Superiority of ivermectin 1%
cream over metronidazole 0.75% cream in treating inﬂammatory
lesions of rosacea: a randomized, investigator-blinded trial. Br J
Dermatol 2015; 172:1103–10.
28 Sibenge S, Gawkrodger DJ. Rosacea: a study of clinical patterns,
blood ﬂow, and the role of Demodex folliculorum. J Am Acad Dermatol
1992; 26:590–3.
29 Bonnar E, Eustace P, Powell FC. The Demodex mite population in
rosacea. J Am Acad Dermatol 1993; 28:443–8.
30 Georgala S, Katoulis AC, Kylaﬁs GD et al. Increased density of Demo-
dex folliculorum and evidence of delayed hypersensitivity reaction in
subjects with papulopustular rosacea. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol
2001; 15:441–4.
31 Abd-El-Al AM, Bayoumy AM, Abou Salem EA. A study on Demodex
folliculorum in rosacea. J Egypt Soc Parasitol 1997; 27:183–95.
32 Erbagci Z, Ozgoztasi O. The signiﬁcance of Demodex folliculorum den-
sity in rosacea. Int J Dermatol 1998; 37:421–5.
33 Schaller M, Gonser L, Belge K et al. Dual anti-inﬂammatory and
anti-parasitic action of topical ivermectin 1% in papulopustular
rosacea. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2017; 31:1907–11.
34 Trave I, Merlo G, Cozzani E et al. Real-life experience on effective-
ness and tolerability of topical ivermectin in papulopustular rosa-
cea and antiparasitic effect on Demodex mites. Dermatol Ther 2019;
32:e13093.
35 Hoekzema R, Hulsebosch HJ, Bos JD. Demodicidosis or rosacea:
what did we treat? Br J Dermatol 1995; 133:294–9.
36 Pena GP, Andrade Filho JS. Is demodex really non-pathogenic? Rev
Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo 2000; 42:171–3.
37 Roth AM. Demodex folliculorum in hair follicles of eyelid skin. Ann
Ophthalmol 1979; 11:37–40.
38 English FP, Nutting WB. Demodicosis of ophthalmic concern. Am J
Ophthalmol 1981; 91:362–72.
39 Ayres S Jr, Mihan R. Rosacea-like demodicidosis involving the eye-
lids. A case report. Arch Dermatol 1967; 95:63–6.
40 Kamoun B, Fourati M, Feki J et al. [Blepharitis due to Demodex:
myth or reality?]. J Fr Ophtalmol 1999; 22:525–7 (in French).
41 Post CF, Juhlin E. Demodex folliculorum and blepharitis. Arch Dermatol
1963; 88:298–302.
42 van der Linden MMD, van Rappard DC, Daams JG et al. Health-re-
lated quality of life in patients with cutaneous rosacea: a system-
atic review. Acta Dermatovenereol 2015; 95:395–400.
43 Cresce ND, Davis SA, Huang WW et al. The quality of life impact
of acne and rosacea compared to other major medical conditions.
J Drugs Dermatol 2014; 13:692–7.
44 Baldwin HE, Harper J, Baradaran S et al. Erythema of rosacea
affects health-related quality of life: results of a survey conducted
in collaboration with the National Rosacea Society. Dermatol Ther
(Heidelb) 2019; 9:725–34.
45 Beikert FC, Langenbruch AK, Radtke MA et al. Willingness to pay
and quality of life in patients with rosacea. J Eur Acad Dermatol Vener-
eol 2013; 27:734–8.
46 Irvine C, Marks S. Prognosis and prognostic factors in rosacea. In:
Acne and Related Disorders (Marks R, Plewig G, eds). London: Martin
Dunitz, 1989; 331–3.
47 Knight AG, Vickers CF. A follow-up of tetracycline-treated rosacea.
With special reference to rosacea keratitis. Br J Dermatol 1975;
93:577–80.
48 Velangi SS, Humphreys F, Beveridge GW. Periocular dermatitis
associated with prolonged use of a steroid eye ointment. Clin Exp
Dermatol 1998; 23:297–8.
49 Malik R, Quirk CJ. Topical applications and perioral dermatitis.
Australas J Dermatol 2000; 41:34–8.
50 Dirschka T, Tronnier H, Folster-Holst R. Epithelial barrier function
and atopic diathesis in rosacea and perioral dermatitis. Br J Dermatol
2004; 150:1136–41.
51 Layton AM, Eady EA, Zouboulis C. Acne. In: Rook’s Textbook of Der-
matology (Grifﬁths C, Barker J, Bleiker T et al., 9th edn. Chichester:
Wiley-Blackwell, 2016; Part 8, Chapter 90.
52 Williams HC, Ashworth J, Pembroke AC et al. FACE – facial Afro-
Caribbean childhood eruption. Clin Exp Dermatol 1990; 15:163–6.
53 Frieden IJ, Prose NS, Fletcher V et al. Granulomatous perioral der-
matitis in children. Arch Dermatol 1989; 125:369–73.
54 Gianotti FE, Bennelli MG, Caputo R. Particuliere dermatite peri-
orale infantile: observations sur cinq cas. Bull Soc Franc Dermatol Syph
1970; 77:341.
55 Massa MC, Su WP. Pyoderma faciale: a clinical study of twenty-
nine patients. J Am Acad Dermatol 1982; 6:84–91.
56 Plewig G, Jansen T, Kligman AM. Pyoderma faciale. A review and
report of 20 additional cases: is it rosacea? Arch Dermatol 1992;
128:1611–7.
57 Chen AY, Zirwas MJ. Steroid-induced rosacealike dermatitis: case
report and review of the literature. Cutis 2009; 83:198–204.
58 Schwab VD, Sulk M, Seeliger S et al. Neurovascular and neuroim-
mune aspects in the pathophysiology of rosacea. J Investig Dermatol
Symp Proc 2011; 15:53–62.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix A Review protocol.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
734 BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
Appendix B Forest plots.
Appendix C Linking the Evidence to the Recommendations
(LETR).
Appendix D Grading of Recommendations Assessment,
Development and Evaluation (GRADE) evidence tables.
Appendix E Summary of included studies.
Appendix F Comparative studies with no extractable data.
Appendix G Narrative ﬁndings from within-patient studies.
Appendix H Narrative ﬁndings from noncomparative stud-
ies.
Appendix
I
Critical
appraisal
of
included
systematic
reviews: AMSTAR 2.
Appendix
J
Preferred
Reporting
Items
for
Systematic
Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) diagram: study selec-
tion.
Appendix K Papers excluded from quantitative analysis.
Appendix L Methodology.
Appendix M Search strategy.
Appendix N Audit standards, data items and data collection
methodology.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 185, pp725–735
BAD guidelines for the management of people with rosacea 2021, P.J. Hampton et al. 735
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/185/4/725/6599936 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
