=== PAGE 1 ===
Guidelines of care for the management
of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma
Work Group: Murad Alam, MD, (Co-Chair),a April Armstrong, MD, MPH,b Christian Baum, MD,c
Jeremy S. Bordeaux, MD, MPH,d Marc Brown, MD,e Klaus J. Busam, MD,f Daniel B. Eisen, MD,g
Vivek Iyengar, MD,h Clifford Lober, MD, JD,i David J. Margolis, MD, PhD,j Jane Messina, MD,k,l
Alexander Miller, MD,m Stanley Miller, MD,n Eliot Mostow, MD, MPH,o Christen Mowad, MD,p
Kishwer Nehal, MD,q Kristi Schmitt-Burr,r Aleksandar Sekulic, MD, PhD,s Paul Storrs, MD,h
Joyce Teng, MD, PhD,t Siegrid Yu, MD,u Conway Huang, MD,v Kevin Boyer, MPH,w
Wendy Smith Begolka, MBS,w and Christopher Bichakjian, MD, (Co-Chair)x
Invited Reviewers: John Y. S. Kim, MD,y Jeffrey H. Kozlow, MD, MS,z Bharat Mittal, MD,aa
Jeffrey Moyer, MD,bb Thomas Olenecki, DO,cc and Phillip Rodgers, MDdd
Chicago and Schaumburg, Illinois; Denver, Colorado; Rochester, Minnesota; Cleveland, Rootstown,
Burton, and Columbus, Ohio; Rochester and New York, New York; Sacramento, San Francisco, Yorba
Linda, and Stanford, California; Kissimmee and Tampa, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Towson
and Danville, Maryland; Phoenix, Arizona; Birmingham, Alabama; and Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is the second most common form of human cancer and has an
increasing annual incidence. Although most cSCC is cured with ofﬁce-based therapy, advanced cSCC poses
a signiﬁcant risk for morbidity, impact on quality of life, and death. This document provides evidence-
based recommendations for the management of patients with cSCC. Topics addressed include biopsy
techniques and histopathologic assessment, tumor staging, surgical and nonsurgical management, follow-
up and prevention of recurrence, and management of advanced disease. The primary focus of these
recommendations is on evaluation and management of primary cSCC and localized disease, but where
relevant, applicability to recurrent cSCC is noted, as is general information on the management of patients
with metastatic disease. ( J Am Acad Dermatol 2018;78:560-78.)
Key words: biopsy; curettage; metastasis; phototherapy; radiotherapy; squamous cell carcinoma; staging;
surgery; surveillance; topical therapy.
DISCLAIMER
Adherence to these guidelines will not ensure
successful treatment in every situation. Furthermore,
these guidelines should not be interpreted as setting
a standard of care, or be deemed inclusive of all
proper methods of care, nor exclusive of other
methods of care reasonably directed to obtaining
the same results. The ultimate judgment regarding
From the Department of Dermatology,a Department of Plastic and
Reconstructive
Surgery,y
and
Department
of
Radiation
Oncology, Northwestern University, Chicagoaa; Department of
Dermatology, University of Colorado, Denverb; Department of
Dermatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochesterc; Case Western Reserve
University School of Medicine, Clevelandd; Department of
Dermatology, University of Rochester, Rochestere; Dermatopa-
thology,f Memorial Sloan-Kettering, New Yorkq; Department of
Dermatology, University of California Davis, Sacramentog; Pri-
vate practice, Chicagoh; Private practice, Kissimmeei; University
of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphiaj;
Departments of Pathology, University of South Floridak and
Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampal; Private practice, Yorba Lindam;
Private practice, Towson, MDn; Dermatology Section, NEOMED,
Rootstowno; Geisinger Medical Center, Danvillep; Basal Cell
Carcinoma Nevus Syndrome Life Support Network, Burtonr;
Mayo
Clinic,
Phoenixs;
Stanford
School
of
Medicinet;
Dermatologic Surgery and Laser Center, University of California
San Franciscou; Department of Dermatology, University of
Alabama, Birminghamv; American Academy of Dermatology,
Schaumburg, ILw; Department of Dermatology, University of
Michigan, Ann Arborx; Section of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery,z Department of Otolaryngology, Plastic/Head/Neck
Surgery,bb and Department of Family Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbordd; and Department of Internal Medicine,
Ohio State University, Columbus.cc
Funding sources: None.
The management of conflict of interests for this guideline series
complies with the Council of Medical Special Societies’ Code of
Interactions with Companies. The authors’ conflict of interest/
disclosure statements appear at the end of this article.
Accepted for publication October 3, 2017.
Reprint requests: guidelines@aad.org.
Correspondence
to:
Wendy
Smith
Begolka,
MBS,
American
Academy
of
Dermatology,
930
East
Woodfield
Rd,
Schaumburg, IL 60173. E-mail: wsmithbegolka@aad.org.
Published online January 10, 2018.
0190-9622/$36.00
 2017 by the American Academy of Dermatology, Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaad.2017.10.007
560

=== PAGE 2 ===
the propriety of any speciﬁc therapy must be made
by the physician and the patient in light of all the
circumstances presented by the individual patient,
and the known variability and biologic behavior of
the disease. This guideline reﬂects the best available
data at the time the guideline was prepared. The
results of future studies may require revisions to the
recommendations in this guideline to reﬂect new
data.
SCOPE
This guideline addresses the management of
patients with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma
(cSCC) from the perspective of a US dermatologist.
Other forms of SCC, such as head and neck (ie,
mucosal) SCC are outside the scope of this docu-
ment, as is a discussion of cSCC in situ (Bowen
disease). The primary focus of the guideline is on the
most commonly considered and utilized approaches
for the surgical and medical treatment of cSCC, but it
also includes recommendations on appropriate bi-
opsy techniques, staging, follow-up, and prevention
of cSCC. A detailed discussion of speciﬁc chemo-
therapeutic
or
radiotherapeutic
approaches
for
distant metastatic SCC falls outside the scope of this
guideline.
However,
general
recommendations
regarding
the
management
of
patients
with
advanced or metastatic SCC are included to provide
guidance and facilitate consultation with a physician
or multidisciplinary group with speciﬁc expertise in
SCC, such as a surgical, medical, or radiation
oncologist, head and neck surgeon, plastic surgeon,
or dermatologist specializing in SCC.
METHODS
An expert work group was convened to deter-
mine the audience and scope of the guideline, and to
identify important clinical questions in the biopsy,
staging, treatment, and follow-up of cSCC (Table I).
Work group members completed a disclosure of
interests that was updated and reviewed for potential
relevant conflicts of interest periodically throughout
guideline development. If a potential conflict was
noted, the work group member recused himself or
herself from discussion and drafting of recommen-
dations pertinent to the topic area of the disclosed
interest.
An evidence-based approach was used and avail-
able evidence was obtained by using a systematic
search and review of published studies from PubMed
and the Cochrane Library databases from January
1960 through April 2015 for all identiﬁed clinical
questions. A secondary search was subsequently
undertaken to identify and review published studies
from April 2015 to August 2016 to provide the most
current information. Searches were prospectively
limited to publications in the English language. As
cSCC is traditionally known as a form of nonmela-
noma skin cancer (NMSC), a term that also includes
basal cell carcinoma (BCC), searches were collec-
tively undertaken for literature on cSCC and BCC
simultaneously, by using a set of search terms
applicable to both cSCC and BCC. A parallel
American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) guideline
on BCC has also been developed.1 MeSH (Medical
Subject Headings) terms used in various combina-
tions in the literature search included carcinoma,
basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, skin
neoplasms, stage(ing), grade(ing), score(ing), biopsy,
pathology,
prognosis,
signs
and
symptoms,
risk
factors,
curettage,
electrodesiccation,
excision,
incomplete,
cryosurgery,
Mohs
(micrographic)
surgery,
topical,
fluorouracil,
imiquimod,
laser,
radiotherapy,
radiation,
photochemotherapy,
Table I. Clinical questions used to structure the
evidence review
d What is the standard grading system for BCC and cSCC?
d What are the standard biopsy techniques for BCC and
cSCC?
d What pathologic and clinical information is useful in the
pathology report for BCC and cSCC?
d What are the benefits harm and effectiveness/efficacy of
available treatments for BCC and cSCC?
B Surgical treatment
d Standard excision
d Mohs micrographic surgery
d Curettage and electrodesiccation
d Cryosurgery
B Topical therapy
d Fluorouracil
d Imiquimod
d Other
B Energy devices
d Laser
d Photodynamic therapy (MAL* and ALA)
d Radiation therapy
d What are effective treatment options for the manage-
ment of advanced BCC and cSCC?
B Hedgehog inhibitors*
d What are the effective methods for follow-up and
preventing recurrence and new primary keratinocyte
cancer formation?
B Oral and topical retinoids
B Celecoxib
B a-Difluoromethylornithine
B Selenium
B b-Carotene
ALA,
Aminolevulinic
acid;
BCC,
basal
cell
carcinoma;
cSCC,
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; MAL, methylaminolevulinate.
*BCC only.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
561

=== PAGE 3 ===
phototherapy, metastasis, vismodegib, sonidegib, pre-
vention, prevention and control, and recurrence.
A total of 1120 articles were reviewed for possible
inclusion; 188 were retained on the basis of relevancy
and the highest level of available evidence for the
outlined clinical questions. Evidence tables were
generated for these 188 studies and utilized by the
work group in developing recommendations. Other
current guidelines on cSCC were also evaluated.2-4
The available evidence was evaluated by using
a
uniﬁed
system
called
the
Strength
of
Recommendation Taxonomy (SORT), which was
developed by editors of the US family medicine and
primary care journals (ie, American FamilyPhysician,
Family Medicine, Journal of Family Practice, and BMJ
USA).5 Evidence was graded using a 3-point scale
based on the quality of study methodology (eg,
randomized control trial [RCT ], case-control, prospec-
tive/retrospective cohort, case series, etc), and the
overall focus of the study (ie, diagnosis, treatment/
prevention/screening, or prognosis) as follows:
I. Good-quality
patient-oriented
evidence
(ie,
evidence
measuring
outcomes
that
matter
to
patients:
morbidity,
mortality,
symptom
improvement, cost reduction, and quality of life).
II. Limited-quality patient-oriented evidence.
III. Other evidence, including consensus guidelines,
opinion, case studies, or disease-oriented evidence
(ie, evidence measuring intermediate, physio-
logic, or surrogate end points that may or may
not reflect improvements in patient outcomes).
Clinical recommendations were developed on the
basis of the best available evidence tabled in the
guideline. These are ranked as follows:
A. Recommendation based on consistent and good-
quality patient-oriented evidence. Recommenda-
tion based on consistent and good-quality pa-
tient-oriented evidence.
B. Recommendation
based
on
inconsistent
or
limited-quality patient-oriented evidence.
C. Recommendation based on consensus, opinion,
case studies, or disease-oriented evidence.
In situations in which published evidence-based
data were not available, expert opinion of the
authors
was
utilized
to
generate
clinical
recommendations.
This guideline has been developed in accordance
with
the
AAD/AAD
Association
Administrative
Regulations for Evidence-Based Clinical Practice
Guidelines, which includes the opportunity for re-
view and comment by the entire AAD membership
and final review and approval by the AAD Board of
Directors.6 An additional multidisciplinary panel of
invited reviewers was utilized to provide cross-
specialty comments on the draft guideline. This
guideline will be considered current for a period of
5 years from the date of publication, unless reaf-
firmed, updated, or retired at or before that time.
INTRODUCTION
cSCC is the second most common skin cancer and
the second most common form of keratinocyte
carcinoma after BCC. Like BCC, cSCC is increasing
in incidence throughout the world. In the United
States, lifetime risk for development of cSCC is
estimated at 9% to 14% for men and 4% to 9% for
women.7 Each year in the United States, at least
200,000 to 400,000 new cases of cSCC are expected,
and disease-related death occurs in more than 3000
people with cSCC.8 A Canadian study also detected
an increase in annual incidence in cSCC of more than
200% in both men and women from 1960 to 2000.9
According to a study of US health care workers that
analyzed prospective questionnaires obtained from
more than 250,000 participants enrolled in 3 large
cohort studies from 1976 to 2008, the incidence of
invasive cSCC increased over 18 years of follow-
up.10
Although many factors can increase the risk for
cSCC, cumulative sun exposure, especially in child-
hood and youth, is of greatest importance. In recent
years, immunosuppression, including that associ-
ated with organ transplantation,11 has emerged as an
increasingly important contributor to tumorigenesis.
cSCC can develop on any skin surface. In fair-
skinned individuals, who are at highest risk, sun
exposed areas, including the head and neck and the
backs of the arms and hands, are common anatomic
sites.12 Awareness is growing that patients with skin
of color are also at risk, with tumors in these patients
sometimes emerging in sun-protected sites or in
areas of chronic inflammation.13
Abbreviations used:
AAD:
American Academy of Dermatology
AJCC:
American Joint Committee on Cancer
BCC:
basal cell carcinoma
BWH:
Brigham and Women’s Hospital
C&E:
curettage and electrodesiccation
CT:
computed tomography
5-FU:
5-ﬂuorouracil
MM:
malignant melanoma
MMS:
Mohs micrographic surgery
NCCN:
National Comprehensive Cancer Network
PI:
principal investigator
RCT:
randomized controlled trial
cSCC:
cutaneous Squamous Cell carcinoma
SLNB:
sentinel lymph node biopsy
SOTR:
solid organ transplant recipient
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
562
Alam et al

=== PAGE 4 ===
The treatment of cSCC has long been a substantial
component of the clinical practice of dermatologists,
who are well versed in the numerous available
therapeutic options. These clinical practice guide-
lines provide evidence-based recommendations for
clinical treatment and management of patients with
cSCC. Information pertaining to widely utilized
therapies, ranging from curettage and electrodesic-
cation (C&E) to Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS),
is reviewed. The quality of the evidence regarding
emerging treatment modalities, such as topical and
systemic medications and devices, is also discussed.
Recommendations regarding staging, biopsy tech-
nique, prevention, and follow-up are made on the
basis of the best available literature.
Recently, the diagnosis and treatment of cSCC
among older adults with limited life expectancy has
become an important and valid topic of discus-
sion.14,15 A clear distinction between advanced age
and limited life expectancy is critical to this debate,
as they are by no means synonymous. Every derma-
tologist is familiar with healthy, energetic nonage-
narians, who justifiably desire and deserve treatment
of their cSCC with a modality that provides optimal
cure rate and quality of life. Conversely, significant
medical comorbidities at any age may justify a
therapeutic option that may have a lower long-term
cure rate but is most appropriate with regard to
quality of life. In select circumstances and after
careful consideration with their health care provider,
patients may understandably prefer observation over
any form of treatment. A thorough understanding of
the entire spectrum of therapies available for cSCC
and the evidence on which each treatment recom-
mendation is based is critical to selecting and
providing care optimally tailored to individual
patients.
Although many recommendations in these guide-
lines reafﬁrm prevailing knowledge and current
practice, some recommendations highlight alterna-
tive therapeutic or preventive options that are less
widely considered or are supported by insufﬁcient
evidence. As the incidence of keratinocyte carci-
noma in the United States continues to increase,16 a
thorough understanding of the management of cSCC
and the evidence on which recommendations are
based is critically important for optimal patient care.
GRADING AND STAGING
A universally accepted staging system for risk
stratiﬁcation of cSCC is not yet available. Until 2010,
cSCC was grouped in the American Joint Committee
on Cancer (AJCC) staging manual with a multitude of
other cutaneous malignancies.17 In the seventh edi-
tion of the staging manual, which was published in
2010, cSCC was specifically addressed in the chapter
‘‘Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma and Other
Cutaneous Carcinomas.’’18 In the recently published
eighth edition, cSCC is included in the chapter
‘‘Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head
and Neck.’’19 Although the chapter focuses primarily
on cSCC, the staging system applies to all histologic
subtypes of carcinoma limited to the head and neck,
with the exception of Merkel cell carcinoma.
Several studies have evaluated various aspects of
the seventh edition of the AJCC staging system for
cSCC
and
consistently
identiﬁed
unsatisfactory
prognostication among stage groups.20 In 2013,
Brunner et al noted the heterogeneous nature of
stage group IV, and in 2014 they pointed out that
nodal classification demonstrated less prognostic
significance in cSCC than in mucosal SCC.21,22 In
2013, Jambusaria-Pahlajani et al proposed an alter-
native tumor classification system for cSCC on the
basis of a retrospective cohort study.23 This alter-
native Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH)
system classifies tumor categories on the basis of
presence of several clinical and pathologic risk
factors, as summarized in Table II. The BWH
system was validated by an expanded retrospective
cohort from the same group, as well as by an
independent
systematic
literature
review.24,25
Although the BWH system does not address nodal
and metastasis classifications and advanced stage
groups as the AJCC staging system does, it appears
to provide superior prognostication for patients
with localized cSCC. Further validation by inde-
pendent cohorts, as well as clinical trials regarding
nodal staging and adjuvant therapy, will be needed
to determine the clinical utility of the proposed
staging system.
Current National Comprehensive Cancer Network
(NCCN) clinical practice guidelines for cSCC provide
Table II. Brigham and Women’s Hospital tumor
classification system
Category
Definition
T0
In situ SCC
T1
0 risk factors*
T2a
1 risk factor
T2b
2-3 risk factors
T3
4 risk factors or bone invasion
Reprinted with permission.23 Copyright 2013 American Medical
Association. All rights reserved.
SCC, Squamous cell carcinoma.
*Risk factors include tumor diameter 2 cm or larger, poorly
differentiated histology, perineural invasion, and tumor invasion
beyond
the
subcutaneous
fat
(excluding
bone,
which
automatically upgrades to T3).
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
563

=== PAGE 5 ===
an approach to stratifying high-risk and low-risk
tumors, similar to that used for BCC.3 This stratifica-
tion, summarized in Table III, takes both clinical and
pathologic parameters into account and is based on a
combination
of available evidence and expert
opinion. The NCCN risk stratification is primarily
intended to provide health care providers with
practical clinical guidance on how to treat cSCC
rather than to provide accurate prognostication and
assess outcome as the BWH system does. For this
reason, treatment recommendations throughout the
currently presented guidelines are based on the
NCCN risk stratification (for the recommendations,
see Table IV; for the level of evidence/strength of the
recommendations, see Table V2,3,20-50).
On the basis of the low overall risk for nodal
and distant metastases in cSCC, staging imaging
studies are rarely indicated. Although very limited
data are available on the value of such studies in
cSCC, imaging to evaluate for nodal metastasis (eg,
computed
tomography,
F-ﬂuorodeoxyglucose
positron emission tomography/computed tomog-
raphy, or ultrasound) may be considered for
high-risk
tumors
(eg,
BWH
category
$T2b).
Imaging may also be considered to assess for
deep
structural
involvement
with
extensive
localized disease.51 A thorough clinical examina-
tion of the regional lymph node basins should
always be performed.
The value of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB)
in cSCC is currently unknown. Tumor size and
thickness, as well as angiolymphatic and perineural
invasion, have been proposed as risk factors for
sentinel lymph node positivity, but small study sizes
limit the assessment of prognostic parameters.
Retrospective and prospective case series have
demonstrated successful detection of occult nodal
metastases and suggested a prognostic role in
patients with high-risk tumors.52,53 However, the
effect of SLNB on management and outcome of
Table III. National Comprehensive Cancer Network stratification of low versus high risk cSCC
Parameters
Low risk
High risk
Clinical
Location*/sizey
Area L \20 mm
Area L $20 mm
Area Mz \10 mm
Area M $10 mm
Area Hx
Borders
Well defined
Poorly defined
Primary vs recurrent
Primary
Recurrent
Immunosuppression
No
Yes
Site of prior radiation therapy or chronic inflammatory
process
No
Yes
Rapidly growing tumor
No
Yes
Neurologic symptoms
No
Yes
Pathologic
Degree of differentiation
Well to moderately differentiated
Poorly differentiated
High-risk histologic subtypek
No
Yes
Depth (thickness or Clark level){
\2 mm, or I, II, III
$2 mm or IV, V
Perineural, lymphatic, or vascular involvement
No
Yes
Reprinted with permission.3
cSCC, Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.
*Area L consists of trunk and extremities (excluding hands, feet, nail units, pretibia, and ankles); area M consists of cheeks, forehead, scalp,
neck, and pretibia; and area H consists of central face, eyelids, eyebrows, periorbital skin, nose, lips, chin, mandible, preauricular and
postauricular skin/sulci, temple, ear, genitalia, hands, and feet.
yGreatest tumor diameter, including peripheral rim of erythema.
zLocation independent of size may constitute high risk.
xArea H constitutes high-risk on the basis of location, independent of size.
kAdenoid (acantholytic), adenosquamous (showing mucin production), desmoplastic, or metaplastic (carcinosarcomatous) subtypes.
{A modified Breslow measurement should exclude parakeratosis or scale/crust and should be made from base of the ulcer is present. If
clinical evaluation of incisional biopsy suggests that microstaging is inadequate, consider narrow-margin excisional biopsy.
Table IV. Recommendations for grading and
staging of cSCC
Stratification of localized SCCs using the NCCN guideline
framework is recommended for clinical practice.
Clinicians should refer to the BWH tumor classification
system to obtain the most accurate prognostication of
patients with localized cSCC.
BWH, Brigham and Women’s Hospital; cSCC, cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma; NCCN, National Comprehensive Cancer Network;
SCC, squamous cell carcinoma.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
564
Alam et al

=== PAGE 6 ===
patients with cSCC is unknown; enrollment of high-
risk patients in clinical trials is encouraged, when
available.
BIOPSY
The available literature does not identify a single
optimal biopsy technique for sampling lesions sus-
pected of being cSCC. Recommended biopsy tech-
niques for cSCC include punch biopsy, shave (eg, by
tangential technique) biopsy,a and excisional bi-
opsy. Excisional biopsy is distinguished from exci-
sion with margins in that the intent of the former is to
determine and/or confirm diagnosis, whereas the
intent of the latter is to remove the tumor. For all
techniques, the biopsy specimen size and depth
should be adequate to provide the recommended
clinical information and pathology report elements
to permit accurate diagnosis and guide therapy,
including
by
identifying
an
aggressive
growth
pattern if present. Repeat biopsy may be considered
if the initial biopsy specimen is inadequate for
accurate diagnosis. The recommendations for biopsy
of suspected cSCC are shown in Table VI, and the
level of evidence/strength of the recommendation is
presented in Table V.
Selection of the speciﬁc biopsy technique is
contingent on the clinical characteristics of the
suspected tumor, including morphology, expected
histologic subtype and depth, natural history, and
anatomic location; patient-speciﬁc factors, such as
bleeding and wound healing diatheses; and patient
preference and physician judgment. Most investiga-
tions that have compared biopsy methods for
detection of NMSC have studied BCC rather than
Table V. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations for grading and staging, biopsy, clinical
information, and pathology report for the treatment of cSCC
Recommendation
Strength of recommendation
Level of evidence
References
Grading and staging
AJCC
B
II
20-25
BWH
B
II
23-25
NCNN
C
III
2,3
Biopsy
C
II, III
26-32
Clinical information provided to pathologist
Age
A
I, II
33-35
Sex
B
II
34,36
Anatomic location
B
I, II
34-43
Recurrent lesion
A
I, II
41,44,45
Size of lesion
A
I, II
23,37-45
Immunosuppression
B
I, II
20,23,39,43,46
History, especially radiation, burn, organ transplant
B
II
20,41,47,48
Pathology report elements
Degree of differentiation*
B
I, II
23,35,37,39-44
Presence of aggressive histologic subtypey
B
I, II
39,40
Depth of invasion, mm
A
I, II
23,33,39,42-45
Clark level of invasion
B
II
40,41
Perineural invasion
A
I, II
23,33,37,40-45
Lymphovascular invasion
A
I, II
37,44
Invasion of fascia, muscle, or bone
A
I, II
23,33,44,45
No. of high-risk featuresz
C
III
Expert opinion
Margin status
B
II
20,34,36
TNM stage (AJCC)
A
I
23,33
Inflammation
A
I
33,44
Infiltrative strands, single cells, small nests
B
II
40
Diameter of largest involved nerve
B
II
49,50
AJCC, American Joint Committee on Cancer; BWH, Brigham and Women’s Hospital; cSCC, cutaneous squamous cell cancer; NCCN, National
Comprehensive Cancer Network; TNM, tumor, node, metastasis.
*Well differentiated, moderately differentiated, poorly differentiated, or undifferentiated.
yAcantholytic, adenosquamous, or carcinosarcomatous subtypes.
zHigh-risk features include thickness greater than 2 mm, Clark level IV or V, poorly differentiated/undifferentiated, site on mucosa lip or ear,
perineural invasion, and lymphovascular invasion.
aShave biopsies are not necessarily superficial, tangential shaves of
tissue. We use the term shave for biopsies that are saucerize or
scoop techniques that may penetrate deep into the dermis.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
565

=== PAGE 7 ===
cSCC.26-32 However, given the similarity in the depth
and anatomic distribution of many BCC and cSCC
tumors, the findings of these studies are likely
applicable also to biopsy of cSCC. Specifically, it is
likely that initial punch or shave biopsies can detect
the relevant histologic characteristics for the vast
majority of sampled cSCC tumors. When recurrent
tumor, deep invasion, or other aggressive features
are suspected, more extensive tissue resection or
multiple scouting biopsies may be needed to detect
these features if more superficial methods are
insufficient. The need to obtain information through
biopsy is counterbalanced by the patient and physi-
cian preferences to minimize biopsy-associated
discomfort, trauma, risk for wound infection or
dehiscence, scar, or loss of function, particularly on
the head, neck, and other vital, functional, sensory,
or cosmetically sensitive sites.
Clinical and pathologic information
A presumptive diagnosis of cSCC is based on the
physician’s interpretation of clinical information,
including appearance and morphology, anatomic
location, and patient-reported history. Clinical diag-
nosis is routinely conﬁrmed by biopsy ﬁndings
before treatment. When the clinician is submitting
biopsy tissue for histopathologic diagnosis, and
when possible and appropriate, key elements of
the patient demographics, clinical presentation, and
history should be provided to the pathologist (Table
VII; for level of evidence/strength of recommenda-
tions, see Table V). These include patient age and
biologic sex,33-36 anatomic location of the tumor,34-41
and any history of treatment at the same anatomic
site.34-43 Additional desirable relevant information
may include the clinical size of the lesion23,37-45 and
whether the patient currently has, or in years past
had, additional risk factors, such as immunosuppres-
sion,20,23,39,43,46 radiation treatment, or solid organ
transplantation.20,41,47,48 Although not prognostically
relevant, information regarding ongoing treatment
that may or may not contribute to cSCC pathogenesis
(eg, kinase or hedgehog pathway inhibitor) may be
diagnostically useful.
The principal purpose of the biopsy pathology
report is to provide the clinician with an accurate
diagnosis of the presence (or absence) of cSCC. If
cSCC is detected, additional features that are re-
ported include degree of differentiation and, when
possible and appropriate, any features that would
classify the lesion as high risk, including aggressive
histologic subtypes (acantholytic, adenosquamous,
and carcinosarcomatous), depth greater than 2 mm
(measured from the granular layer of the adjacent
Table VI. Recommendations for the biopsy of
suspected cSCC
The recommended biopsy techniques for cSCC are punch
biopsy, shave biopsy, and excisional biopsy. The biopsy
technique used will depend on the characteristics of the
suspected malignancy (morphology, location, etc) and
the judgment of the physician.
The biopsy size and depth should be adequate to provide
the recommended clinical information and pathology
report elements to permit accurate diagnosis and guide
therapy.
Repeat biopsy may be considered if the initial biopsy
specimen is inadequate for accurate diagnosis.
cSCC, Cutaneous squamous cell cancer.
Table VII. Recommendations for clinical
information and pathology report for suspected
cSCC
Clinical information provided to pathologist
Strongly recommended
d Age
d Sex
d Anatomic location
d Recurrent lesion
Recommended
d Size of lesion
d Immunosuppression
d History
(especially
radiation,
burn,
organ
transplant)
Elements to be included in final pathology report (excision
specimens)
Strongly recommended
d Degree of differentiation*
d Presence of aggressive histologic subtypey
d Depth of invasion, mm
d Clark level of invasion
d Perineural invasion
d Lymphovascular invasion
d Invasion of fascia, muscle, or bone
d Number of high-risk featuresz
d Margin status
d TNM stage (AJCC)
Recommended
d Inflammation
d Infiltrative strands, single cells, small nests
d Diameter of largest involved nerve
AJCC, American Joint Committee on Cancer; cSCC, cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma; TNM, tumor, node, metastasis.
*Welldifferentiated,moderately differentiated,poorlydifferentiated,
or undifferentiated.
yAcantholytic, adenosquamous, or carcinosarcomatous subtypes.
zHigh-risk features include thickness greater than 2 mm, Clark level
IV or V, poorly differentiated/undifferentiated, site on mucosa lip or
ear, perineural invasion, and lymphovascular invasion.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
566
Alam et al

=== PAGE 8 ===
intact epidermis), Clark level IV or greater, and
presence of perineural and/or angiolymphatic inva-
sion. The presence of prognostically favorable fea-
tures, such as histopathologic subtype, including
verrucous
carcinoma
and
keratoacanthomatous
SCC, may be clinically useful.
For excision specimens, the extent of the reported
detail depends on whether it represents a primary
excisional
biopsy
or
re-excision
of
a
biopsy-
conﬁrmed tumor. Any new prognostically relevant
ﬁndings should be noted. It is recommended that the
following
items
be
reported,
if
possible
and
appropriate: the
degree of cellular differentia-
tion23,35,37,39-44;
presence
of
any
aggressive
histologic subtypes39,40; depth of invasion in milli-
meters23,33,39,42-45;
anatomic
(Clark)
level
of
invasion40,41; presence of any perineural inva-
sion23,33,37,40-45; presence of any lymphovascular
invasion37,44; description of any invasion of fascia,
muscle, or bone23,33,44,45; margin status (involved or
not involved by tumor) 20,34,36; the number of high-
risk features present and the relevant TNM (tumor,
node, and metastasis) stage based on current AJCC
criteria (Table VII) (for level of evidence/strength of
recommendations, see Table V).18,23,33 In selected
cases, other elements that have been shown to have
prognostic significance for clinical care may addi-
tionally be reported; they include the presence of
inflammation33,44 or infiltrative strands, single cells,
or small nests of tumor.40 When perineural invasion
is observed, the diameter of the largest affected nerve
(eg, when $ 0.1 mm) may be reported, if this is
deemed to be clinically significant.49,50 With regard
to margin status, if a cSCC with aggressive features
extends close to a margin, it should be reported.
Pathologic evaluation of skin biopsy specimens is
ideally performed by a dermatologist or pathologist
who is experienced in interpreting cutaneous neo-
plasms. Such a physician is most able to collectively
interpret the clinical tumor ﬁndings and the histologic
features (ie, clinicopathologic correlation) to provide
the most precise and accurate biopsy diagnosis.
SURGICAL TREATMENT
It is generally accepted that the majority of cSCCs
are successfully treated with standard treatment
modalities, such as surgical excision. However, there
is a subset of tumors with increased risk for local
recurrence, perineural spread, and even nodal or
distant metastasis, particularly in immunocompro-
mised individuals. Unfortunately, a systematic re-
view of the literature reveals a complete absence of
RCTs and a general paucity of prospective trials
assessing the effectiveness of primary surgical in-
terventions for cSCC.54 Treatment recommendations
are generally based on retrospective data, consensus
opinion, and extrapolation from data on BCC or non-
cSCC of the head and neck. When the most appro-
priate therapy is being chosen, recurrence rate,
preservation of function, patient expectations, and
potential
adverse
effects
must
be
taken
into
consideration.55
In this section, the available data on the most
commonly used surgical treatment modalities for
cSCC, including standard excision, MMS, and C&E,
will be reviewed. Nonsurgical therapies will be
addressed separately.
Standard excision
cSCC, similar to BCC, is characterized by asym-
metric subclinical extension of the tumor beyond the
clinically visible lesion. To ensure complete removal
with histologically negative margins, standard exci-
sion with ‘‘bread loaf’’ histopathologic sectioning
must include a margin of clinically normaleappear-
ing skin around the tumor and surrounding ery-
thema. To our knowledge, no RCT comparing
different excision margins for cSCC has been per-
formed. An extensive systematic review of observa-
tional studies on interventions for cSCC by Lansbury
et al identiﬁed 12 studies addressing standard
excision of cSCC, mostly retrospective case series
of limited quality and with variable follow-up
periods.54 The authors reported an average local
recurrence rate of 5.4% (95% confidence interval,
2.5-9.1 [n = 1144]) among all studies, with excision
margins ranging from 2 to 10 mm. Incomplete
excisions were reported in 8.8% of all cases, although
the definitions of an incomplete excision varied
widely. In 1992, Brodland and Zitelli reported that
4-mm margins were required to achieve at least 95%
clearance rates when excising cSCC using MMS.56 In
the same study, for high-risk lesions larger than 2 cm
in clinical diameter or with higher histologic grade, at
least 6-mm margins were required to achieve 95%
clearance rates. On the basis of the limited available
data and consensus opinion, NCCN guidelines
recommend 4- to 6-mm clinical margins for standard
excision of low-risk cSCC (Table III).3
Given the limited available data, the work group
recommends standard excision with a 4- to 6-mm
margin of uninvolved skin around the tumor and/or
biopsy site to a depth of the mid-subcutaneous
adipose tissue with histologic margin assessment
for low-risk primary cSCC (on the basis of NCCN risk
stratiﬁcation [Table III]). Standard excision may be
considered for select high-risk tumors. However,
strong caution is advised when selecting a treatment
modality without complete margin assessment for
high-risk
cSCC.
The
insufficient
data
preclude
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
567

=== PAGE 9 ===
recommendation of defined peripheral and deep
margins for excision of high-risk tumors with stan-
dard excision. When standard excision is performed
for high-risk tumors, a linear repair, skin graft, or
healing by second intention are recommended. If a
repair requiring significant tissue rearrangement is
indicated, closure should be delayed until negative
histologic margins are confirmed. Recommendations
for standard excision of cSCC are summarized in
Table VIII. The strength of these recommendations is
shown in Table IX.41,54,55,57,58
MMS
Dr Frederic Mohs ﬁrst described the use of
chemosurgery for the removal of difﬁcult or recur-
rent cutaneous tumors in the 1940s.59,60 Three de-
cades later, the concept of en face horizontal
sectioning for complete peripheral and deep margin
control pioneered by Mohs to achieve optimal cure
rates and maximum tissue conservation was adapted
to the ‘‘fresh tissue’’ technique by Tromovitch and
Stegman.61 This modification eliminated the pain
from in vivo fixation with zinc chloride paste,
shortened the time required to perform surgery and
allowed immediate repair of a fresh surgical wound.
Microscopic controlled excision, later referred to as
MMS, was recommended for all recurrent or poorly
defined tumors, for sclerosing BCC, and for all
primary cutaneous carcinomas in areas with a pre-
dilection for recurrence.62
Since that time, the use of MMS has signiﬁcantly
increased and indications have expanded to include
many
other
cutaneous
malignancies,
including
cSCC. In 2012, a combined task force of the AAD,
American
College
of
Mohs
Surgery,
American
Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and
American Society for Mohs Surgery developed
appropriate use criteria for MMS.63 However, to
date,
no
RCTs
or
prospective
cohort
studies
comparing MMS with other treatment modalities for
the treatment of cSCC have been performed. In a
systematic review of the literature since 1940, Rowe
et al, reported a 5-year local recurrence rate of 3.1%
(n = 2065) for primary cSCC treated with MMS.41 In
comparison, the 5-year recurrence rates for C&E,
standard excision, and radiation therapy were 3.7%
(n = 82), 8.1% (n = 124), and 10.0% (n = 160),
respectively. When high-risk factors were taken into
account,
MMS
showed
lower
recurrence
rates
compared with standard excision and other non-
MMS treatment modalities: 25.2% versus 41.7% for
tumors 2 cm or larger, 32.6% versus 53.6% for poorly-
differentiated cSCC, and 0% versus 47% for neuro-
tropic cSCC. For recurrent cSCC, the meta-analysis by
Rowe et al revealed a 5-year recurrence rate after
MMS of 10.0% (n = 151) compared with 23.3%
(n = 34) following standard excision. Similar 5-year
recurrence rates for recurrent cSCC treated with MMS
(ranging between 6% and 11%) were reported by
others.57,64
In the absence of high-level data, extrapolation
from a recent RCT demonstrating the beneﬁt of MMS
for primary and recurrent facial BCC may be
justiﬁed to support the use of MMS for high-risk
cSCC.58 A large percentage of cSCCs are located on
the head and neck, where tissue conservation is
important. Similar to BCC, cSCC is characterized
histologically by asymmetric subclinical extension
beyond the clinically visible tumor, but it presents
with perineural involvement more frequently than
BCC does.65 Both histopathologic features would
support the importance of meticulous and complete
margin assessment with MMS. However, aggressive
histopathologic growth patterns poorly visualized
with frozen sections (eg, sarcomatoid/spindle cell
or single cell infiltrative cSCC) may limit the utility of
MMS under certain circumstances. An additional
limitation is that tissue blocks from MMS layers are
not available for molecular testing or further eval-
uation of high-risk or unusual features by using
paraffin sections.66 To overcome this challenge, the
tumor debulk specimen may be submitted for
paraffin sections to document high-risk features
and obtain ancillary molecular studies, if indicated,
without compromising the integrity of the MMS
procedure.67 Alternatively, key pathologic high risk
features can be documented in the Mohs report to
facilitate prognostic assessment and guide post-
operative management when indicated. Careful
selection, on the basis of initial biopsy results, of
Table VIII. Recommendations for the surgical
treatment of cSCC
A treatment plan that considers recurrence rate,
preservation of function, patient expectations, and
potential adverse effects is recommended.
C&E may be considered for low-risk, primary cSCC in none
terminal hairebearing locations.
For low-risk primary cSCC, standard excision with a 4- to
6-mm margin to a depth of the mid-subcutaneous
adipose tissue with histologic margin assessment is
recommended.
Standard excision may be considered for select high-risk
tumors. However, strong caution is advised when
selecting a treatment modality for high-risk tumors
without a complete margin assessment.
MMS is recommended for high-risk cSCC.
C&E, Curettage and electrodessication; cSCC, cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma; MMS, Mohs micrographic surgery.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
568
Alam et al

=== PAGE 10 ===
tumors appropriate for treatment with MMS and
evaluation by frozen sections will minimize these
limitations.
On the basis of the best available data, the
work group recommends MMS for the treatment of
high-risk cSCC (on the basis of NCCN risk stratiﬁca-
tion [Table VIII]; for level of evidence/strength of
recommendation, see Table IX).
C&E
C&E is regularly used in daily practice for the
treatment of low-risk cSCC. However, no RCTs have
been performed and no prospective data are avail-
able to compare C&E with other treatment modal-
ities. In the aforementioned systematic review by
Lansbury et al, 8 retrospective series of variable
follow-up periods that addressed C&E were identi-
ﬁed.54 A pooled analysis revealed a recurrence
rate of 1.7% (95% confidence interval, 0.5-3.4
[n = 1131]). Small, individual studies suggested
higher recurrence rates for lesions greater than
2 cm in diameter or located on the ear and treated
with C&E.
The limited available data suggest that C&E is an
effective treatment modality for properly selected
tumors, although results are highly operator depen-
dent.68 It is the work group’s opinion that C&E may
be considered for small, low-risk primary cSCC (on
the basis of NCCN risk stratification [Table VIII]; for
level of evidence/strength of recommendation, see
Table IX). Lesions on terminal hairebearing skin (the
scalp, pubic, axillary regions, and the beard area in
men) should be excluded from treatment with C&E
because of potential follicular extension of tumor.3
Moreover, C&E may be associated with a longer
healing
time
and
inferior
cosmetic
outcome
compared with standard excision and is best avoided
in cosmetically sensitive areas.69
NONSURGICAL TREATMENT
In general, treatment of cSCC is most effectively
accomplished by surgical therapy. There are rela-
tively few exceptions to this guiding principle,
especially for high-risk cSCC, because of the poten-
tial for recurrence and metastasis. If surgical therapy
is not feasible or elected, nonsurgical approaches
may be considered when tumors are low risk, with
the understanding that the cure rate may be lower.
Further research is needed to better establish the
comparative safety and effectiveness of nonsurgical
therapies
for
cSCC.
The
recommendations
for
nonsurgical treatments are shown in Table X. The
level of evidence/strength of the recommendations
is listed in Table XI.54,70-79
PDT
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a 2-part treatment
consisting of topical application of a photosensitizer,
either 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) or methylamino-
levulinate (MAL), followed by 1 to several hours of
incubation by light irradiation, typically with a blue,
red, or broadband light source.80-91 Available data for
PDT and laser therapy do not currently support the
Table X. Recommendations for the nonsurgical
therapy of cSCC
If surgical therapy is not feasible or preferred, radiation
therapy (eg, superficial radiation therapy, brachytherapy,
external electron beam therapy, and other traditional
radiotherapy forms) can be considered when tumors are
low risk, with the understanding that the cure rate may
be lower.
Cryosurgery may be considered for low-risk cSCC when
more effective therapies are contraindicated or
impractical.
Topical therapies (imiquimod or 5-FU) and PDT are not
recommended for the treatment of cSCC on the basis of
available data.
There is insufficient evidence available to make a
recommendation on the use laser therapies or electronic
surface brachytherapy in the treatment of cSCC.
cSCC, Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; 5-FU, 5-fluorouracil;
PDT, photodynamic therapy.
Table IX. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations for the surgical treatment of cSCC
Recommendation
Strength of recommendation
Level of evidence
References
Treatment plan
A
II
55
Standard excision with 4- to 6-mm margins for low-risk
primary SCC*
B
II
54
Standard excision for high-risk SCC
B
II
54
C&E for low-risk primary SCC*
B
II, III
54
MMS for high-risk SCC*
B
II, III
41,54,57,58
C&E, Curettage and electrodessication; cSCC, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; MMS, Mohs micrographic surgery; SCC, cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma.
*As defined by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
569

=== PAGE 11 ===
efficacy of either modality in the treatment of cSCC.54
Limited case report and case series data suggest that
PDT may be used as an adjuvant modality in com-
bination with curettage92 and surgery93 for invasive
cSCC in high-risk patients such as solid organ trans-
plant recipients (SOTRs) and potentially to spare
tissue, but the specific contribution of PDT to
observed outcomes in such combination approaches
is uncertain.
When PDT is combined with surgery, multiple
PDT treatments may be used. Exacerbation or in-
duction of well-differentiated cSCC or keratoacan-
thoma after PDT has however been reported.94
Topical therapies
The available data do not currently support the
use of topical modalities for the treatment of cSCC.
Published studies investigating the use of topical
imiquimod
or
5-ﬂuorouracil
(5-FU)
for
cSCC
(excluding SCC in situ) are limited to case reports
for imiquimod and 2 small case series for 5-FU.54,78,79
Variable lengths of follow-up and histologic clear-
ance limit the strength of these data.54 Because use of
5-FU typically results in marked erythema, erosions,
and crust lasting for a month or longer, decreased
patient compliance with treatment regimens may
result in diminished effectiveness. Similarly, imiqui-
mod dosing for cSCC is complicated by the resultant
tissue effects, including erythema, edema and ero-
sions, ulceration and crust, that are not consistent
from one individual to the next. In addition, imiqui-
mod use for larger surface areas may be associated
with
systemic
symptoms,
including
fatigue,
influenza-like symptoms, myalgia, and headache.
Radiation therapy
Although surgery remains the ﬁrst-line, and most
effective, treatment for cSCC, primary radiation
therapy can be used in special situations in which
surgery is not feasible, contraindicated, or not
preferred by the patient after a discussion of risks
and beneﬁts. Several different types of radiotherapy
can be used to treat cSCC, including superﬁcial
radiation
therapy,
isotope-based
brachytherapy
(interstitial or topical contact), or external electron
beam radiation.54,70-74,95 Primary or adjuvant radia-
tion therapy is an effective treatment option for
selected patients with cSCC, resulting in good tumor
control and cosmesis,96 with the understanding that
the cure rates may be lower.97,98 Smaller and thinner
tumors may be more responsive to radiation ther-
apy.54,99 As with other nonsurgical approaches, the
available data on radiotherapy are limited by small
patient numbers and variable lengths of follow-up to
detect local or regional recurrences.54 Although
there is limited evidence regarding the use of
traditional variants of brachytherapy for the treat-
ment of cSCC, such as interstitial radiotherapy and
isotope-based
contact
brachytherapy,
electronic
brachytherapy, a form of superficial radiation ther-
apy, is a newer modality for which long-term safety
and effectiveness data are lacking.76,77 Primary cSCC
with concerning perineural invasion or otherwise at
high risk for regional or distant metastasis may be
considered for adjuvant radiation therapy to the local
tumor site following surgical treatment.100 High-level
evidence about the effectiveness of this approach is
lacking.
Cryosurgery
Given the lack of histologic margin control with
this approach, as well as the known risk for subclin-
ical extension of cSCC, cryosurgery should be
considered only for low-risk lesions, when more
effective therapies are contraindicated or imprac-
tical. The objective of cryosurgery, interchangeably
Table XI. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations for the nonsurgical treatment of cSCC
Recommendation
Strength of
recommendation
Level of
evidence
References
Cryosurgery
B
II
54
Radiation therapy
d Traditional radiotherapies and modern superficial radiation therapy
d Electronic surface brachytherapy
B
C
II, III
III
54,70-75
76,77
Against topical therapy alone
d Imiquimod
d 5-FU
C
C
III
III
54,78,79
54
Against photodynamic therapy alone
B
II
54
Laser therapy
C
III
54
cSCC, Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; 5-FU, 5-fluorouracil.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
570
Alam et al

=== PAGE 12 ===
referred to as cryotherapy, in the treatment of cSCC is
to cause selective destruction of the same volume of
tissue that would have been removed with standard
excision. Although cryosurgery is frequently used for
the treatment of precursor lesions (ie, actinic kera-
toses), limited data are available on its use for
cSCC.54
Laser treatment
Treatment of cSCC by a Nd:YAG laser has been
reported in a single retrospective study, with this
extremely limited experience precluding the recom-
mendation of laser for this indication.54 PDT, which
includes a light source as well as a topical photosen-
sitizer, was discussed earlier in these Guidelines.
MANAGING PATIENTS WITH METASTATIC
cSCC
The risk for metastasis in cSCC is reported to be
approximately 4%.39 Among immunosuppressed in-
dividuals, particularly for SOTRs, the metastatic risk
may be 2 to 3 times higher.101 Cutaneous in-transit
and regional lymph node metastases are the most
common
metastatic
presentation,
followed
by
distant metastases. In patients with high-risk local-
ized tumors, successful detection of occult lymph
node metastases by SLNB has been reported.52,53
However, the effect of SLNB on management and
outcome of patients with high-risk cSCC is unknown.
The available literature on management of in-
transit and lymph node metastases is largely limited
to retrospective reviews and case series of patients
with head and neck cSCC.51,102,103 Therapeutic
recommendations are based on the extent of disease
and consist primarily of surgical resection with
possible lymph node dissection and consideration
of adjuvant radiation therapy with or without con-
current systemic therapy. Given the rarity and
complexity of metastatic cSCC, multidisciplinary
consultation is recommended. For inoperable lymph
node metastases, combination chemoradiation ther-
apy
should
be
considered.
For
patients
with
advanced disease, it is also appropriate to provide
or refer to best supportive and palliative care to
optimize symptom management and maximize qual-
ity of life.
Existing data on the treatment of patients with
distant metastatic cSCC are sparse and limited to
phase II clinical trials. Chemotherapy, including
cisplatin as a single agent or combined with 5-
ﬂuorouracil (5-FU), has shown some activity, but
the results have not been conﬁrmed in larger co-
horts.104,105 In other phase II trials, epidermal growth
factor receptor inhibitors, such as cetuximab and
more recently panitumumab, have demonstrated
efficacy in patients with advanced unresectable
cSCC.106,107 In (noncutaneous) head and neck SCC,
a phase III trial demonstrated that the addition of
panitumumab to combination cisplatin and 5-FU
improved progression-free survival, but not overall
survival.108 The US Food and Drug Administration
recently approved the immune checkpoint (pro-
grammed cell death 1) inhibitor pembrolizumab for
some patients with advanced (noncutaneous) head
and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Great interest
currently exists in ongoing clinical trials evaluating
the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors for
locally advanced and metastatic cSCC.
Careful consideration must be given to immuno-
suppressed individuals with high-risk localized or
metastatic cSCC, given its more aggressive clinical
behavior and poor prognosis. In SOTRs, dose
reduction of the immunosuppressive agents and
minimizing use of calcineurin inhibitors (eg, cyclo-
sporine, tacrolimus) and/or antimetabolites (eg.,
azathioprine) in favor of mammalian target of
rapamycin inhibitors (eg, sirolimus) may be consid-
ered when appropriate.109,110 However, a recent
retrospective cohort study did not demonstrate a
reduction in post-transplantation risk for cSCC
among
SOTRs
exposed
to
sirolimus.111
Multidisciplinary consultation and management are
strongly encouraged for SOTRs with advanced or
metastatic SCC.
The
recommendations
for
management
of
regional and distant metastatic SCC are shown in
Table XII. Recommendations for management of
locally advanced or metastatic SCC
Surgical resection, with or without adjuvant radiation
therapy and possible systemic therapy are
recommended for regional lymph node metastases.
Combination chemoradiation therapy should be
considered for inoperable disease.
Epidermal growth factor inhibitors and cisplatin, as a single
agent or in combination therapy, may be considered, as
they have demonstrated efficacy for metastatic disease,
albeit on the basis of limited data.
Multidisciplinary consultation and management,
particularly in immunosuppressed individuals, is
recommended for patients with locoregional or distant
metastases. In some cases, such consultation may be
appropriate for patients with locally advanced disease
without known metastases.
Patients with advanced disease should be provided with or
referred for best supportive and palliative care to
optimize symptom management and maximize quality
of life.
SCC, Squamous cell carcinoma.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
571

=== PAGE 13 ===
Table XII, and the level of evidence/strength of the
recommendation is provided in Table XIII.51,102-108
FOLLOW-UP AND REDUCING RISK FOR
FUTURE SKIN CANCERS
Once an cSCC has been diagnosed, in-ofﬁce
screening for new primary skin cancers, including
BCC, cSCC, and melanoma, should be performed at
least once per year, adjusting frequency on the basis
of individual patient risk. Clinical assessment of
regional lymph node basins may be included in the
physical examination for high-risk lesions. This
recommendation derives from the considerable ev-
idence from cohort studies and registries that a
patient with at least 1 cSCC is at risk for additional
cSCC as well as other for skin cancers, including BCC
and melanoma.
A 2010 meta-analysis by Wheless et al determined
that the summary random-effects relative risk for
development of a second NMSC after diagnosis of a
ﬁrst was 1.12 on the basis of 12 cohort studies from
cancer registries versus 1.49 on the basis of 3 studies
with patient-level data.112 More recently, Wehner
et al found in their prospective cohort that the 5-year
probability of another NMSC after diagnosis of a first
was 40.7%, and after more than 1 it was 82%.113 At
10 years, the chances of another NMSC after the first
increased to 59.6% and after diagnosis of a nonfirst
NMSC the chances of another increased to 91.2%.
Initial diagnosis of NMSC, including cSCC, in-
creases the risk for subsequent malignant melanoma
(MM). Song et al found a relative risk for develop-
ment of MM after diagnosis of a NMSC of 1.99 for
men and 2.58 for women.114 These data were based
on 2 large prospective cohort studies with 46,237
men and 107,339 women under study. A smaller
study that included 3548 people found the relative
risk for MM to be 3.62 after diagnosis of an SCC.115
Patients who have had cSCC should be coun-
seled regarding the risk for new primary skin
cancers, the need for in-ofﬁce screening, and the
potential beneﬁts of self-screening. Concurrent pa-
tient self-surveillance for cSCC and other skin
cancers may be of additional utility in detecting
new primary tumors while they are still small and
easily treated. Family members can also help
patients detect skin cancers, as they may be able
to identify suspicious lesions at anatomic sites (eg,
the back) that are not easily assessed by the
patient.116
Patients with a history of cSCC should also be
counseled regarding the need for sun protection, sun
avoidance, and tanning bed avoidance. Broad-
spectrum chemical and physical sunscreens have
been shown to reduce ultraviolet light exposure per
unit time when properly applied.117,118 Routine use
of sunscreens is recommended in combination with
other sun-protective behaviors, such as seeking
shade and wearing broad-brimmed head coverings.
Many topical and oral agents have been recom-
mended to reduce the risk for a new SCC or other
skin cancer after an initial diagnosis of cSCC, but the
evidence for these agents is mixed. Topical retinoids
have not been found to reduce the incidence of
keratinocyte cancers or actinic keratosis in those
Table XIII. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations for the management of locally advanced or
metastatic SCC
Recommendation
Strength of recommendation
Level of evidence
References
Surgical resection with/without adjuvant radiotherapy
B
II
51,102,103
Epidermal growth factor inhibitors and cisplatin
B
I, II
104-108
Multidisciplinary consultation
A
III
Expert opinion
Palliative care
A
III
Expert opinion
SCC, Squamous cell carcinoma.
Table XIV. Recommendations for the follow-up of
cSCC and reducing risk for future skin cancer
After diagnosis of a first SCC, screening for new
keratinocyte cancers (BCC or cSCC) and for melanoma
should be performed on at least an annual basis.
Patients with a history of cSCC should be counseled on
skin self-examination and sun protection.
Topical and oral retinoids (eg, tretinoin, retinol, acitretin,
and isotretinoin) should not be prescribed to reduce the
incidence of keratinocyte cancers in those with a history
of cSCC, unless they are SOTRs. In the situation of SOTRs,
only acitretin may be beneficial.
Dietary supplementation of selenium and b-carotene is
not recommended to reduce the incidence of future
keratinocyte cancers in those with a history of cSCC.
There is insufficient evidence to make a recommendation
on the use of oral nicotinamide, DFMO, or celecoxib in
the chemoprevention of cSCC.
BCC, Basal cell carcinoma; cSCC, cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma; DFMO, a-difluoromethylornithine; SCC, squamous cell
carcinoma; SOTR, solid organ transplant recipient.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
572
Alam et al

=== PAGE 14 ===
with
a
history
of
a
keratinocyte
cancer.119
Consequently, topical retinoids are not recommen-
ded for reducing the risk for subsequent cSCC in
patients with a history of cSCC. In addition, topical
retinoids used for prolonged periods were associ-
ated in a single study with increased mortality,
although some investigators have discounted this
result as spurious.120 Although acitretin has not been
shown to be helpful in reducing the incidence of
cSCC in nontransplant patients with a history of
NMSC,121 it may have a role in the management of
SOTRs with a history of NMSC.122 One small RCT
demonstrated benefit to renal transplant patients
with 10 or more keratotic lesions.123 The benefits
of oral retinol need more study, as 2 large RCTs have
shown divergent conclusions. Isotretinoin does not
appear to reduce the incidence of cSCC in those with
a history of NMSC.124,125
Limited evidence is available to support the utility
of other agents, including cyclic PDT, oral nicotin-
amide, and celecoxib, in reducing the risk for cSCC in
patients with a history of keratinocyte carcinoma.
There is early evidence from a small trial that oral
nicotinamide may reduce the risk for subsequent
keratinocyte carcinoma in nonimmunosuppressed
individuals with a history of such carcinomas.126
Although there is also some evidence that oral
celecoxib reduces the risk for cSCC in patients with
previous NMSC,127 the potential benefits should be
weighed against the significant risk for a cardiovas-
cular event that is associated with this medication.
The dietary supplements b-carotene and sele-
nium are not recommended for reducing risk for
cSCC in patients with history of keratinocyte carci-
noma. Several RCTs have shown no protective
beneﬁt against NMSC associated with either b-caro-
tene
or
selenium.128-130
Treatment-associated
adverse events, notably, skin yellowing with b-caro-
tene use and gastrointestinal upset with selenium,
have been noted.
The
recommendations
for
the
follow-up
and reducing risk for future tumors are shown in
Table XIV, and the level of evidence/strength
of the recommendations is presented in Table
XV.112-115,119-121,123,125-138
GAPS IN RESEARCH
Much research remains to be done to elucidate the
causes, natural history, and optimal management of
cSCC. The relative importance of risk factors for
cSCC, including the impact of immunosuppression
over time, requires further elucidation. Population-
based incidence, morbidity, and mortality data
remain imprecise in the United States because there
is no requirement for reporting these tumors to
tumor registries. In the context of prevention, the
long-term utility of sun protection and avoidance
measures remains to be clariﬁed. The role of SLNB
in high-risk cSCC is unclear, and additional studies
are warranted to determine their utility and indica-
tions. Novel therapeutic modalities are expected to
continue to emerge. Results of ongoing clinical trials
Table XV. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations for the follow-up of cSCC and reducing risk for
future tumors
Recommendation
Strength of recommendation
Level of evidence
References
Annual follow-up skin cancer screening
A
I
112-115,131,132
Skin self-examination and sun protection after cSCC
A
III
Expert opinion
Against the use of topical and oral retinoids*
d Tretinoin
d Acitretin
d Isotretinoin
d Oral retinol
A
B
A
A
I, II
I
I
I
119,120,133
121
125,134
125,135
Use of acetretin for SOTR patients
B
I
123
Against chemoprevention using
d Celecoxib
d DFMO
d Oral nicotinamide
B
A
B
I
I
I
127,136
137,138
126
Against dietary supplementation with
d Selenium
d b-Carotene
A
A
I
I
128,129
130
cSCC, Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; DFMO, a-difluoromethylornithine; SOTR, solid organ transplant recipient.
*Non-SOTRs.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
573

=== PAGE 15 ===
with immune checkpoint inhibitors for locally
advanced and metastatic cSCC are expected in near
future.
We thank Charniel McDaniels, MS, for technical assis-
tance in the development of this manuscript. We also thank
the AAD Board of Directors, the Council on Science and
Research, the Clinical Guidelines Committee, and all
commenting Academy members for their thoughtful and
excellent feedback.
The AAD strives to produce clinical guidelines that
reﬂect the best available evidence supplemented with the
judgment of expert clinicians. Signiﬁcant efforts are taken
to minimize the potential for conﬂicts of interest to inﬂu-
ence guideline content. The management of conﬂict of
interest for this guideline complies with the Council of
Medical Specialty Societies’ Code of Interactions with
Companies. Funding of guideline production by medical
or pharmaceutical entities is prohibited, full disclosure is
obtained and evaluated for all guideline contributors
throughout the guideline development process, and
recusal is used to manage identified relationships. The
AAD conflict of interest policy summary may be viewed at
www.aad.org.
Disclosure: The below information represents the
authors’ disclosed relationships with industry during
guideline development. Relevant relationships requiring
recusal for drafting of guideline recommendations and
content by work group members were not noted for this
guideline.
April Armstrong, MD, MPH, served as an advisory board
member
for
Abbvie,
Amgen,
Janssen-Ortho,
Merck,
Novartis, Pﬁzer and UCB, receiving honoraria; as a
consultant for Celgene, Eli Lily, Jannsen-Ortho, and
Modernizing Medicine, receiving honoraria; as a speaker
for Abbvie, receiving honoraria; and as a principal inves-
tigator (PI) for Eli Lily, Janssen-Ortho, Novartis, and
Regeneron, receiving grants/research funding. Jeremy S.
Bordeaux, MD, MPH, served as an advisory board member
for Lubax, receiving honoraria; as an employee of
Massachusetts General Hospital, receiving a salary; and
in another role with Journal Watch Dermatology, receiving
honoraria. Marc Brown, MD, served as an advisory board
member for DUSA Pharmaceuticals, receiving no compen-
sation. David J. Margolis, MD, PhD, served as an advisory
board member for Astellas, Celleration, and Kerecis,
receiving fees; as a PI for Valeant, receiving grants/research
funding; and as a Data Safety Monitoring Board member
for DermaSciences, Macrocure, and Sanoﬁ/Regeneron
receiving fees. Stanley Miller, MD, served as an employee
of UpToDate, Inc, receiving patent royalties and other
compensation. Eliot Mostow, MD, MPH, served as a
consultant for Elsevier, receiving a salary; as a speaker
and PI for Healthpoint, receiving honoraria and grants/
research funding; and as an advisory board member for
Vivacare, receiving honoraria. Christen Mowad, MD,
served on the Board of Directors for Elsevier, receiving
honoraria; in other roles with UpToDate, Inc, receiving
patient royalties and other compensation; and as a PI for
Amgen, receiving fees. Dr. Mowad also had a relative
serving as an employee of Takeda Pharmaceuticals
receiving salary. Aleksander Sekulic, MD, PhD, served as
an advisory board member for Roche and as a PI for
Genentech, receiving fees. Conway Huang, MD, served as
a consultant for Castle Biosciences, Inc, receiving hono-
raria. Murad Alam, M, served as a consultant for Amway,
receiving honoraria, and as a PI for OptMed and 3M,
receiving no personal compensation. Thomas Olenecki,
DO, served as a PI for BMS, Exelixis, Genentech, Pﬁzer,
and
Tracon,
receiving
grants/research
funding.
Christopher Bichakjian, MD, Christian Baum, MD, Klaus
J. Busam, MD, Daniel B. Eisen, MD, Vivek Iyengar, MD,
Clifford Lober, MD, JD, Jane Messina, MD, Alexander
Miller, MD, Kishwer Nehal, MD, Kristi Schmitt-Burr, Paul
Storrs, MD, Joyce Teng, MD, PhD, Siegrid Yu, MD, John
Y.S. Kim, MD, Jeffrey H. Kozlow, MD, MS, Bharat Mittal,
MD, Jeffrey Moyer, MD, Phillip Rodgers, MD, Kevin Boyer,
MPH, and Wendy Smith Begolka, MBS, have no relation-
ships to disclose.
REFERENCES
1. Bichakjian C, Armstrong A, Baum C, et al. Guidelines of care
for the management of basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad
Dermatol. Online ahead of print. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jaad.2017.10.006.
2. National Comprehensive Cancer Center. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology; squamous cell carcinoma (V1.2015).
Available at: www.nccn.org. Accessed April 1, 2015.
3. National Comprehensive Cancer Center. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology; squamous cell carcinoma (V1.2017).
Available at: www.nccn.org. Accessed October 3, 2016.
4. Motley R, Kersey P, Lawrence C. Multiprofessional guidelines
for the management of the patient with primary cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol. 2002;146(1):18-25.
5. Ebell MH, Siwek J, Weiss BD, et al. Strength of recommen-
dation taxonomy (SORT): a patient-centered approach to
grading evidence in the medical literature. J Am Board Fam
Pract. 2004;17(1):59-67.
6. AmericanAcademyofDermatology.Administrativeregulations;
evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Available at: www.
aad.org/Forms/Policies/Uploads/AR/AR%20-%20Evidence-Based
%20Clinical%20Guideline.pdf. Accessed December 1, 2014.
7. Miller DL, Weinstock MA. Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the
United States: incidence. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1994;30(5 Pt 1):
774-778.
8. Karia PS, Han J, Schmults CD. Cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma: estimated incidence of disease, nodal metastasis,
and deaths from disease in the United States, 2012. J Am
Acad Dermatol. 2013;68(6):957-966.
9. Demers AA, Nugent Z, Mihalcioiu C, Wiseman MC, Kliewer EV.
Trends of nonmelanoma skin cancer from 1960 through 2000
in a Canadian population. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2005;53(2):
320-328.
10. Nguyen KD, Han J, Li T, Qureshi AA. Invasive cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma incidence in US health care
workers. Arch Dermatol Res. 2014;306(6):555-560.
11. Kim C, Cheng J, Colegio OR. Cutaneous squamous cell
carcinomas in solid organ transplant recipients: emerging
strategies for surveillance, staging, and treatment. Semin
Oncol. 2016;43(3):390-394.
12. Alam M, Ratner D. Cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma. N
Engl J Med. 2001;344(13):975-983.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
574
Alam et al

=== PAGE 16 ===
13. Agbai ON, Buster K, Sanchez M, et al. Skin cancer and
photoprotection in people of color: a review and recom-
mendations for physicians and the public. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2014;70(4):748-762.
14. Linos E, Schroeder SA, Chren MM. Potential overdiagnosis of
basal cell carcinoma in older patients with limited life
expectancy. JAMA. 2014;312(10):997-998.
15. Fosko SW. Counterpoint: Limited life expectancy, basal cell
carcinoma, health care today, and unintended consequences.
J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015;73(1):162-164.
16. Rogers HW, Weinstock MA, Feldman SR, Coldiron BM.
Incidence estimate of nonmelanoma skin cancer (keratino-
cyte carcinomas) in the U.S. population, 2012. JAMA Derma-
tol. 2015;151(10):1081-1086.
17. Greene FL. American Joint Committee on Cancer, American
Cancer Society. AJCC Cancer Staging Manual. 6th ed. New
York: Springer; 2002.
18. Edge SB.American Joint Committeeon Cancer, American Cancer
Society. AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook: From the AJCC Cancer
Staging Manual. 7th ed. New York, NY: Springer; 2010.
19. Amin MB, Edge SB, Greene FL, et al. AJCC Cancer Staging
Manual. 8th ed. New York, NY: Springer International Pub-
lishing; 2016.
20. Clark JR, Rumcheva P, Veness MJ. Analysis and comparison of
the 7th edition American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC)
nodal staging system for metastatic cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Ann Surg Oncol. 2012;
19(13):4252-4258.
21. Brunner M, Veness MJ, Ch’ng S, Elliott M, Clark JR. Distant
metastases from cutaneous squamous cell carcinomadanal-
ysis of AJCC stage IV. Head Neck. 2013;35(1):72-75.
22. Brunner M, Ng BC, Veness MJ, Clark JR. Comparison of the
AJCC N staging system in mucosal and cutaneous squa-
mous head and neck cancer. Laryngoscope. 2014;124(7):
1598-1602.
23. Jambusaria-Pahlajani A, Kanetsky PA, Karia PS, et al. Evalua-
tion of AJCC tumor staging for cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma and a proposed alternative tumor staging system.
JAMA Dermatol. 2013;149(4):402-410.
24. Karia PS, Jambusaria-Pahlajani A, Harrington DP, Murphy GF,
Qureshi AA, Schmults CD. Evaluation of American Joint
Committee on Cancer, International Union Against Cancer,
and Brigham and Women’s Hospital tumor staging for
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol. 2014;
32(4):327-334.
25. Schmitt AR, Brewer JD, Bordeaux JS, Baum CL. Staging for
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma as a predictor of
sentinel lymph node biopsy results: meta-analysis of Amer-
ican Joint Committee on Cancer criteria and a proposed
alternative system. JAMA Dermatol. 2014;150(1):19-24.
26. Roozeboom
MH,
Mosterd
K,
Winnepenninckx
VJ,
Nelemans PJ, Kelleners-Smeets NW. Agreement between
histological subtype on punch biopsy and surgical excision
in primary basal cell carcinoma. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol.
2013;27(7):894-898.
27. Haws AL, Rojano R, Tahan SR, Phung TL. Accuracy of biopsy
sampling for subtyping basal cell carcinoma. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2012;66(1):106-111.
28. Mosterd K, Thissen MR, van Marion AM, et al. Correlation
between histologic findings on punch biopsy specimens and
subsequent excision specimens in recurrent basal cell
carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2011;64(2):323-327.
29. Smith LC, Cox NH, Dawn G. Shave biopsy without local
anaesthetic to diagnose basal cell carcinoma and other skin
tumours prior to definitive treatment: analysis of 109 lesions.
Br J Dermatol. 2009;160(1):180-182.
30. Russell EB, Carrington PR, Smoller BR. Basal cell carcinoma: a
comparison of shave biopsy versus punch biopsy techniques
in subtype diagnosis. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1999;41(1):69-71.
31. Kadouch DJ, van Haersma de With A, Limpens J, et al. Is a
punch biopsy reliable in subtyping basal cell carcinoma? A
systematic review. Br J Dermatol. 2016;175(2):401-403.
32. Westers-Attema A, Joosten VM, Roozeboom MH, et al. Cor-
relation between histological findings on punch biopsy
specimens and subsequent excision specimens in cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma. Acta Derm Venereol. 2015;95(2):
181-185.
33. Kyrgidis A, Tzellos TG, Kechagias N, et al. Cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the head and neck: risk
factors of overall and recurrence-free survival. Eur J Cancer.
2010;46(9):1563-1572.
34. Hansen C, Wilkinson D, Hansen M, Soyer HP. Factors
contributing to incomplete excision of nonmelanoma skin
cancer by Australian general practitioners. Arch Dermatol.
2009;145(11):1253-1260.
35. Eroglu A, Berberoglu U, Berreroglu S. Risk factors related to
locoregional recurrence in squamous cell carcinoma of the
skin. J Surg Oncol. 1996;61(2):124-130.
36. Talbot S, Hitchcock B. Incomplete primary excision of
cutaneous basal and squamous cell carcinomas in the Bay
of Plenty. N Z Med J. 2004;117(1192):U848.
37. Brougham ND, Dennett ER, Cameron R, Tan ST. The incidence
of metastasis from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and
the impact of its risk factors. J Surg Oncol. 2012;106(7):
811-815.
38. Rieger KE, Linos E, Egbert BM, Swetter SM. Recurrence rates
associated with incompletely excised low-risk nonmelanoma
skin cancer. J Cutan Pathol. 2010;37(1):59-67.
39. Brantsch KD, Meisner C, Schonfisch B, et al. Analysis of risk
factors determining prognosis of cutaneous squamous-cell
carcinoma: a prospective study. Lancet Oncol. 2008;9(8):
713-720.
40. Cherpelis BS, Marcusen C, Lang PG. Prognostic factors for
metastasis in squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Dermatol
Surg. 2002;28(3):268-273.
41. Rowe DE, Carroll RJ, Day CL Jr. Prognostic factors for local
recurrence, metastasis, and survival rates in squamous cell
carcinoma of the skin, ear, and lip. Implications for treatment
modality selection. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992;26(6):976-990.
42. Schmults CD, Karia PS, Carter JB, Han J, Qureshi AA. Factors
predictive of recurrence and death from cutaneous squa-
mous cell carcinoma: a 10-year, single-institution cohort
study. JAMA Dermatol. 2013;149(5):541-547.
43. Thompson AK, Kelley BF, Prokop LJ, Murad MH, Baum CL.
Risk factors for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma recur-
rence, metastasis, and disease-specific death: a systematic
review and meta-analysis. JAMA Dermatol. 2016;152(4):
419-428.
44. Moore BA, Weber RS, Prieto V, et al. Lymph node metastases
from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck. Laryngoscope. 2005;115(9):1561-1567.
45. Clayman GL, Lee JJ, Holsinger FC, et al. Mortality risk from
squamous cell skin cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2005;23(4):759-765.
46. Brandt MG, Moore CC, Jordan K. Randomized control trial of
fluorescence-guided surgical excision of nonmelanotic cuta-
neous malignancies. J Otolaryngol. 2007;36(3):148-155.
47. Campoli M, Brodland DG, Zitelli J. A prospective evaluation of
the clinical, histologic, and therapeutic variables associated
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
575

=== PAGE 17 ===
with incidental perineural invasion in cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2014;70(4):630-636.
48. Lott DG, Manz R, Koch C, Lorenz RR. Aggressive behavior of
nonmelanotic skin cancers in solid organ transplant recipi-
ents. Transplantation. 2010;90(6):683-687.
49. Carter JB, Johnson MM, Chua TL, Karia PS, Schmults CD.
Outcomes of primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma
with perineural invasion: an 11-year cohort study. JAMA
Dermatol. 2013;149(1):35-41.
50. Ross
AS,
Whalen
FM,
Elenitsas
R,
Xu
X,
Troxel
AB,
Schmults CD. Diameter of involved nerves predicts outcomes
in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma with perineural inva-
sion: an investigator-blinded retrospective cohort study.
Dermatol Surg. 2009;35(12):1859-1866.
51. Veness MJ, Morgan GJ, Palme CE, Gebski V. Surgery and
adjuvant radiotherapy in patients with cutaneous head and
neck squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to lymph nodes:
combined treatment should be considered best practice.
Laryngoscope. 2005;115(5):870-875.
52. Ross AS, Schmults CD. Sentinel lymph node biopsy in
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma: a systematic review of
the English literature. Dermatol Surg. 2006;32(11):1309-1321.
53. Navarrete-Dechent C, Veness MJ, Droppelmann N, Uribe P.
High-risk cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and the
emerging role of sentinel lymph node biopsy: a literature
review. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015;73(1):127-137.
54. Lansbury
L,
Bath-Hextall
F,
Perkins
W,
Stanton
W,
Leonardi-Bee J. Interventions for non-metastatic squamous
cell carcinoma of the skin: systematic review and pooled
analysis of observational studies. BMJ. 2013;347:f6153.
55. Chren MM, Sahay AP, Bertenthal DS, Sen S, Landefeld CS.
Quality-of-life outcomes of treatments for cutaneous basal
cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. J Invest
Dermatol. 2007;127(6):1351-1357.
56. Brodland DG, Zitelli JA. Surgical margins for excision of
primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 1992;27(2 Pt 1):241-248.
57. Leibovitch I, Huilgol SC, Selva D, Hill D, Richards S, Paver R.
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma treated with Mohs
micrographic surgery in Australia I. Experience over 10 years.
J Am Acad Dermatol. 2005;53(2):253-260.
58. van Loo E, Mosterd K, Krekels GA, et al. Surgical excision
versus Mohs’ micrographic surgery for basal cell carcinoma of
the face: a randomised clinical trial with 10 year follow-up.
Eur J Cancer. 2014;50(17):3011-3020.
59. Mohs
FE.
Chemosurgery:
a
microscopically
controlled
method of cancer excision. Arch Surg. 1941;42(2):279-295.
60. Mohs FE. Chemosurgical treatment of cancer of the nose; a
microscopically controlled method. Arch Surg. 1946;53:
327-344.
61. Tromovitch TA, Stegeman SJ. Microscopically controlled
excision of skin tumors. Arch Dermatol. 1974;110(2):231-232.
62. Tromovitch TA, Stegman SJ. Microscopie-controlled excision
of cutaneous tumors: chemosurgery, fresh tissue technique.
Cancer. 1978;41(2):653-658.
63. Connolly SM, Baker DR, Coldiron BM, et al. AAD/ACMS/ASD-
SA/ASMS 2012 appropriate use criteria for Mohs micro-
graphic surgery: a report of the American Academy of
Dermatology, American College of Mohs Surgery, American
Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and the
American Society for Mohs Surgery. J Am Acad Dermatol.
2012;67(4):531-550.
64. Lawrence N, Cottel WI. Squamous cell carcinoma of skin with
perineural invasion. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1994;31(1):30-33.
65. Goepfert H, Dichtel WJ, Medina JE, Lindberg RD, Luna MD.
Perineural invasion in squamous cell skin carcinoma of the
head and neck. Am J Surg. 1984;148(4):542-547.
66. Ebede TL, Lee EH, Dusza SW, Busam KJ, Nehal KS. Clinical
value of paraffin sections in association with Mohs micro-
graphic surgery for nonmelanoma skin cancers. Dermatol
Surg. 2012;38(10):1631-1638.
67. American Academy of Dermatology. Appropriate uses of
paraffin sectionsinassociationwithMohs micrographic surgery.
2014;
Available
at:
https://www.aad.org/Forms/Policies/
Uploads/PS/PS%20Appropriate%20Uses%20of%20Paraffin%
20Sections%20in%20Association%20with%20Mohs%20Mirco
graphic%20Surgery.pdf. Accessed February 1, 2017.
68. Goldman G. The current status of curettage and electrodes-
iccation. Dermatol Clin. 2002;20(3):569-578. ix.
69. Rodriguez-Vigil T, Vazquez-Lopez F, Perez-Oliva N. Recur-
rence rates of primary basal cell carcinoma in facial risk areas
treated with curettage and electrodesiccation. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2007;56(1):91-95.
70. Ashby MA, Smith J, Ainslie J, McEwan L. Treatment of
nonmelanoma skin cancer at a large Australian center.
Cancer. 1989;63(9):1863-1871.
71. Hernandez-Machin B, Borrego L, Gil-Garcia M, Hernandez BH.
Office-based radiation therapy for cutaneous carcinoma:
evaluation of 710 treatments. Int J Dermatol. 2007;46(5):
453-459.
72. Grossi Marconi D, da Costa Resende B, Rauber E, et al. Head
and neck non-melanoma skin cancer treated by superficial
x-ray therapy: an analysis of 1021 cases. PLoS One. 2016;11(7):
e0156544.
73. Finizio L, Vidali C, Calacione R, Beorchia A, Trevisan G. What is
the current role of radiation therapy in the treatment of skin
carcinomas? Tumori. 2002;88(1):48-52.
74. Schulte KW, Lippold A, Auras C, et al. Soft x-ray therapy for
cutaneous basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas. J Am
Acad Dermatol. 2005;53(6):993-1001.
75. Cognetta
AB,
Howard
BM,
Heaton
HP,
Stoddard
ER,
Hong HG, Green WH. Superficial x-ray in the treatment of
basal and squamous cell carcinomas: a viable option in select
patients. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2012;67(6):1235-1241.
76. Bhatnagar A. Nonmelanoma skin cancer treated with elec-
tronic brachytherapy: results at 1 year. Brachytherapy. 2013;
12(2):134-140.
77. Paravati AJ, Hawkins PG, Martin AN, et al. Clinical and
cosmetic outcomes in patients treated with high-dose-rate
electronic brachytherapy for nonmelanoma skin cancer. Pract
Radiat Oncol. 2015;5(6):e659-664.
78. Tiodorovic-Zivkovic D, Zalaudek I, Longo C, De Pace B,
Albertini G, Argenziano G. Successful treatment of two
invasive squamous cell carcinomas with topical 5% imiqui-
mod cream in elderly patients. Eur J Dermatol. 2012;22(4):
579-580.
79. Dirschka T, Schmitz L, Bartha A. Clinical and histological
resolution of invasive squamous cell carcinoma by topical
imiquimod 3.75%: a case report. Eur J Dermatol. 2016;26(4):
408-409.
80. Roozeboom MH, Aardoom MA, Nelemans PJ, et al. Fraction-
ated 5-aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy after par-
tial debulking versus surgical excision for nodular basal cell
carcinoma: a randomized controlled trial with at least 5-year
follow-up. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013;69(2):280-287.
81. Roozeboom MH, Arits AH, Mosterd K, et al. Three-year
follow-up results of photodynamic therapy vs. imiquimod
vs.
fluorouracil
for
treatment
of
superficial
basal
cell
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
576
Alam et al

=== PAGE 18 ===
carcinoma:
a
single-blind,
noninferiority,
randomized
controlled trial. J Invest Dermatol. 2016;136(8):1568-1574.
82. Roozeboom
MH,
Arits
AH,
Nelemans
PJ,
Kelleners-
Smeets NW. Overall treatment success after treatment of
primary superficial basal cell carcinoma: a systematic review
and meta-analysis of randomized and nonrandomized trials.
Br J Dermatol. 2012;167(4):733-756.
83. Wang H, Xu Y, Shi J, Gao X, Geng L. Photodynamic therapy in
the treatment of basal cell carcinoma: a systematic review
and meta-analysis. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed.
2015;31(1):44-53.
84. Foley P, Freeman M, Menter A, et al. Photodynamic therapy
with methyl aminolevulinate for primary nodular basal cell
carcinoma: results of two randomized studies. Int J Dermatol.
2009;48(11):1236-1245.
85. Berroeta L, Clark C, Dawe RS, Ibbotson SH, Fleming CJ. A
randomized study of minimal curettage followed by topical
photodynamic therapy compared with surgical excision for
low-risk nodular basal cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol. 2007;
157(2):401-403.
86. Rhodes LE, de Rie MA, Leifsdottir R, et al. Five-year follow-up
of a randomized, prospective trial of topical methyl amino-
levulinate photodynamic therapy vs surgery for nodular
basal cell carcinoma. Arch Dermatol. 2007;143(9):1131-1136.
87. Kuijpers DI, Thissen MR, Thissen CA, Neumann MH. Similar
effectiveness of methylaminolevulinateand5-aminolevulinate
in topical photodynamic therapy for nodular basal cell carci-
noma. J Drugs Dermatol. 2006;5(7):642-645.
88. Soler AM, Angell-Petersen E, Warloe T, et al. Photodynamic
therapy
of
superficial
basal
cell
carcinoma
with
5-aminolevulinic acid with dimethylsulfoxide and ethylendia-
minetetraacetic acid: a comparison of two light sources.
Photochem Photobiol. 2000;71(6):724-729.
89. Osiecka B, Jurczyszyn K, Ziolkowski P. The application of
Levulan-based photodynamic therapy with imiquimod in the
treatment of recurrent basal cell carcinoma. Med Sci Monit.
2012;18(2):PI5-PI9.
90. de Vijlder HC, Sterenborg HJ, Neumann HA, Robinson DJ, de
Haas ER. Light fractionation significantly improves the
response of superficial basal cell carcinoma to aminolaevu-
linic acid photodynamic therapy: five-year follow-up of a
randomized, prospective trial. Acta Derm Venereol. 2012;
92(6):641-647.
91. Arits AH, Mosterd K, Essers BA, et al. Photodynamic therapy
versus topical imiquimod versus topical fluorouracil for
treatment of superficial basal-cell carcinoma: a single blind,
non-inferiority, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol.
2013;14(7):647-654.
92. Jambusaria-Pahlajani A, Ortman S, Schmults CD, Liang C.
Sequential curettage, 5-fluorouracil, and photodynamic ther-
apy for field cancerization of the scalp and face in solid organ
transplant recipients. Dermatol Surg. 2016;42(Suppl 1):S66-72.
93. Wang Y, Yang Y, Yang Y, Lu Y. Surgery combined with topical
photodynamic therapy for the treatment of squamous cell
carcinoma of the lip. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2016;14:
170-172.
94. Kwiek B, Schwartz RA. Keratoacanthoma (KA): an update and
review. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2016;74(6):1220-1233.
95. Locke J, Karimpour S, Young G, Lockett MA, Perez CA.
Radiotherapy for epithelial skin cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys. 2001;51(3):748-755.
96. Mendenhall WM, Amdur RJ, Hinerman RW, Cognetta AB,
Mendenhall NP. Radiotherapy for cutaneous squamous and
basal cell carcinomas of the head and neck. Laryngoscope.
2009;119(10):1994-1999.
97. American Academy of Dermatology. Position statement on
superficial radiation therapy for basal cell carcinoma (bcc)
and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) https://www.aad.org/
Forms/Policies/Uploads/PS/PS-Superficial%20Radiation%
20Therapy.pdf. Accessed November 5, 2016.
98. American Academy of Dermatology. Position statement on
electronic surface brachytherapy for basal cell carcinoma (bcc)
and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). https://www.aad.org/
Forms/Policies/Uploads/PS/PS%20-%20Electronic%20Surface
%20Brachytherapy.pdf. Accessed November 5, 2016.
99. Kwan W, Wilson D, Moravan V. Radiotherapy for locally
advanced basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas of the
skin. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2004;60(2):406-411.
100. Jennings L, Schmults CD. Management of high-risk cuta-
neous squamous cell carcinoma. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol.
2010;3(4):39-48.
101. Cooper JZ, Brown MD. Special concern about squamous cell
carcinoma of the scalp in organ transplant recipients. Arch
Dermatol. 2006;142(6):755-758.
102. Givi B, Andersen PE, Diggs BS, Wax MK, Gross ND. Outcome
of patients treated surgically for lymph node metastases
from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck. Head Neck. 2011;33(7):999-1004.
103. Wang JT, Palme CE, Wang AY, Morgan GJ, Gebski V,
Veness MJ. In patients with metastatic cutaneous head and
neck squamous cell carcinoma to cervical lymph nodes, the
extent of neck dissection does not influence outcome. J
Laryngol Otol. 2013;127(Suppl 1):S2-S7.
104. Guthrie TH Jr, Porubsky ES, Luxenberg MN, Shah KJ,
Wurtz KL, Watson PR. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy in
advanced basal and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin:
results in 28 patients including 13 patients receiving multi-
modality therapy. J Clin Oncol. 1990;8(2):342-346.
105. Shin DM, Glisson BS, Khuri FR, et al. Phase II and biologic study
of interferon alfa, retinoic acid, and cisplatin in advanced
squamous skin cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2002;20(2):364-370.
106. Maubec E, Petrow P, Scheer-Senyarich I, et al. Phase II study
of cetuximab as first-line single-drug therapy in patients with
unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. J Clin
Oncol. 2011;29(25):3419-3426.
107. Foote MC, McGrath M, Guminski A, et al. Phase II study of
single-agent panitumumab in patients with incurable cuta-
neous squamous cell carcinoma. Ann Oncol. 2014;25(10):
2047-2052.
108. Vermorken JB, Stohlmacher-Williams J, Davidenko I, et al.
Cisplatin and fluorouracil with or without panitumumab
in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous-cell
carcinoma
of
the
head
and
neck
(SPECTRUM):
an
open-label phase 3 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol. 2013;
14(8):697-710.
109. O’Neill JO, Edwards LB, Taylor DO. Mycophenolate mofetil
and risk of developing malignancy after orthotopic heart
transplantation: analysis of the transplant registry of the
International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation. J
Heart Lung Transpl. 2006;25(10):1186-1191.
110. Euvrard S, Morelon E, Rostaing L, et al. Sirolimus and
secondary skin-cancer prevention in kidney transplantation.
N Engl J Med. 2012;367(4):329-339.
111. Asgari MM, Arron ST, Warton EM, Quesenberry CP Jr,
Weisshaar D. Sirolimus use and risk of cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma (SCC) in solid organ transplant recipients
(SOTRs). J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015;73(3):444-450.
112. Wheless L, Black J, Alberg AJ. Nonmelanoma skin cancer and
the risk of second primary cancers: a systematic review.
Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2010;19(7):1686-1695.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 3
Alam et al
577

=== PAGE 19 ===
113. Wehner MR, Linos E, Parvataneni R, Stuart SE, Boscardin WJ,
Chren MM. Timing of subsequent new tumors in patients
who present with basal cell carcinoma or cutaneous squa-
mous cell carcinoma. JAMA Dermatol. 2015;151(4):382-388.
114. Song F, Qureshi AA, Giovannucci EL, et al. Risk of a second
primary cancer after non-melanoma skin cancer in white men
and women: a prospective cohort study. PLoS Med. 2013;
10(4):e1001433.
115. Rees JR, Zens MS, Gui J, Celaya MO, Riddle BL, Karagas MR.
Non melanoma skin cancer and subsequent cancer risk. PLoS
One. 2014;9(6):e99674.
116. Robinson JK, Wayne JD, Martini MC, Hultgren BA, Mallett KA,
Turrisi R. Early detection of new melanomas by patients with
melanoma
and
their
partners
using
a
structured
skin
self-examination skills training intervention: a randomized
clinical trial. JAMA Dermatol. 2016;152(9):979-985.
117. van der Pols JC, Williams GM, Pandeya N, Logan V, Green AC.
Prolonged prevention of squamous cell carcinoma of the
skin by regular sunscreen use. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers
Prev. 2006;15(12):2546-2548.
118. Green AC, Williams GM, Logan V, Strutton GM. Reduced
melanoma after regular sunscreen use: randomized trial
follow-up. J Clin Oncol. 2011;29(3):257-263.
119. Weinstock MA, Bingham SF, Digiovanna JJ, et al. Tretinoin
and the prevention of keratinocyte carcinoma (basal and
squamous cell carcinoma of the skin): a veterans affairs
randomized chemoprevention trial. J Invest Dermatol. 2012;
132(6):1583-1590.
120. Weinstock MA, Bingham SF, Lew RA, et al. Topical tretinoin
therapy and all-cause mortality. Arch Dermatol. 2009;145(1):
18-24.
121. Kadakia KC, Barton DL, Loprinzi CL, et al. Randomized
controlled trial of acitretin versus placebo in patients at
high-risk for basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
(North Central Cancer Treatment Group Study 969251).
Cancer. 2012;118(8):2128-2137.
122. Chen K, Craig JC, Shumack S. Oral retinoids for the preven-
tion of skin cancers in solid organ transplant recipients: a
systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Br J
Dermatol. 2005;152(3):518-523.
123. Bavinck JN, Tieben LM, Van der Woude FJ, et al. Prevention of
skin cancer and reduction of keratotic skin lesions during
acitretin
therapy
in
renal
transplant
recipients:
a
double-blind, placebo-controlled study. J Clin Oncol. 1995;
13(8):1933-1938.
124. Tangrea JA, Edwards BK, Taylor PR, et al. Long-term therapy
with low-dose isotretinoin for prevention of basal cell carci-
noma: a multicenter clinical trial. Isotretinoin-Basal Cell Carci-
noma Study Group. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1992;84(5):328-332.
125. LevineN,MoonTE,CartmelB,etal.Trialofretinolandisotretinoin
in
skin
cancer
prevention:
a
randomized,
double-blind,
controlled trial. Southwest Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group.
Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 1997;6(11):957-961.
126. Chen AC, Martin AJ, Choy B, et al. A phase 3 randomized trial
of nicotinamide for skin-cancer chemoprevention. N Engl J
Med. 2015;373(17):1618-1626.
127. Elmets CA, Viner JL, Pentland AP, et al. Chemoprevention of
nonmelanoma skin cancer with celecoxib: a randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J Natl Cancer Inst.
2010;102(24):1835-1844.
128. Clark LC, Combs GF Jr, Turnbull BW, et al. Effects of selenium
supplementation for cancer prevention in patients with
carcinoma of the skin. A randomized controlled trial.
Nutritional Prevention of Cancer Study Group. JAMA. 1996;
276(24):1957-1963.
129. Duffield-Lillico AJ, Slate EH, Reid ME, et al. Selenium supple-
mentation and secondary prevention of nonmelanoma skin
cancer in a randomized trial. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2003;95(19):
1477-1481.
130. Greenberg ER, Baron JA, Stukel TA, et al. A clinical trial of beta
carotene to prevent basal-cell and squamous-cell cancers of
the skin. The Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group. N Engl J
Med. 1990;323(12):789-795.
131. Chen J, Ruczinski I, Jorgensen TJ, et al. Nonmelanoma skin
cancer and risk for subsequent malignancy. J Natl Cancer Inst.
2008;100(17):1215-1222.
132. Marcil I, Stern RS. Risk of developing a subsequent non-
melanoma skin cancer in patients with a history of non-
melanoma skin cancer: a critical review of the literature and
meta-analysis. Arch Dermatol. 2000;136(12):1524-1530.
133. Geng A, Weinstock MA, Hall R, et al. Tolerability of high-dose
topical tretinoin: the Veterans Affairs Topical Tretinoin Che-
moprevention Trial. Br J Dermatol. 2009;161(4):918-924.
134. Tangrea JA, Adrianza E, Helsel WE, et al. Clinical and
laboratory
adverse
effects
associated
with
long-term,
low-dose
isotretinoin:
incidence
and
risk
factors.
The
Isotretinoin-Basal Cell Carcinomas Study Group. Cancer
Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 1993;2(4):375-380.
135. Moon TE, Levine N, Cartmel B, et al. Effect of retinol in
preventing squamous cell skin cancer in moderate-risk sub-
jects: a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial. Southwest
Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group. Cancer Epidemiol Bio-
markers Prev. 1997;6(11):949-956.
136. Tang JY, Aszterbaum M, Athar M, et al. Basal cell carcinoma
chemoprevention with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
in genetically predisposed PTCH11/ humans and mice.
Cancer Prev Res (phila). 2010;3(1):25-34.
137. Kreul SM, Havighurst T, Kim K, et al. A phase III skin cancer
chemoprevention study of DFMO: long-term follow-up of
skin cancer events and toxicity. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2012;
5(12):1368-1374.
138. Bailey
HH,
Kim
K,
Verma
AK,
et
al.
A
randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 skin cancer pre-
vention study of {alpha}-difluoromethylornithine in subjects
with previous history of skin cancer. Cancer Prev Res (phila).
2010;3(1):35-47.
J AM ACAD DERMATOL
MARCH 2018
578
Alam et al
