=== PAGE 1 ===
GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for the
management of people with cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma 2020*
S.G. Keohane1,2 J. Botting,3,4 P.G. Budny,5,6 O.M. Dolan iD ,7 K. Fife iD ,8,9 C.A. Harwood iD ,10
R. Mallipeddi,1,11 J.R. Marsden,12 R.J. Motley iD ,13 C. Newlands,14,15 C. Proby iD ,16 A. Rembielak iD ,8,17,18
D.N. Slater iD ,19 J.A. Smithson,20,21 P. Buckley,22 P. Fairbrother,23 M. Hashme,24 M.F. Mohd Mustapa iD ,24
L.S. Exton iD 24 and the British Association of Dermatologists’ Clinical Standards Unit
1British Society for Dermatological Surgery, London, UK
2Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust, Portsmouth, PO3 6AD, UK
3Royal College of General Practitioners, London, UK
4Glebe Road Surgery, Barnes, SW13 0DR, UK
5British Association of Plastic Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgeons, London, UK
6Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, Aylesbury, HP21 8AL, UK
7Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, Belfast, BT12 6BA, UK
8Royal College of Radiologists, Holborn, London, WC2A 3JW, UK
9Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ, UK
10Barts Health NHS Trust, Centre for Cell Biology and Cutaneous Research, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, E1 2AT, UK
11St John’s Institute of Dermatology, Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, London, SE1 9RT, UK
12Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK
13University Hospital of Wales, Health Park, Cardiff, CF14 4XN, UK
14British Association of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons, London, UK
15Royal Surrey County Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Guildford, GU2 7XX, UK
16University of Dundee, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, DD1 9SY, UK
17The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK
18The University of Manchester, Manchester, M13 9PL, UK
19Royal College of Pathologists, London, E1 8BB, UK
20British Dermatological Nursing Group, Belfast, UK
21East Sussex Healthcare NHS Trust, Eastbourne, BN21 2UD, UK
22Patient representative
23Independent Cancer Patients’ Voice, London, UK
24British Association of Dermatologists, Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square, London, W1T 5HQ, UK
Correspondence
Steve Keohane.
Emails: stephen.keohane@porthosp.nhs.uk; guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
17 October 2020
Conﬂicts of interest statements can be found in the Appendix.
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists (BAD)
Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee. Members
of the Clinical Standards Unit who have contributed are N.J. Levell (Chair, Therapy &
Guidelines Subcommittee), B. McDonald, A. Salim, S.L. Chua, G. Petrof, A. Bardhan, P.
Rakvit, M. Hashme (BAD Information Scientist), L.S. Exton (BAD Guideline Research
Fellow) and M.F. Mohd Mustapa (BAD Director of Clinical Standards).
Produced in 2002 by the British Association of Dermatologists (BAD). Reviewed and
updated 2009, 2020.
NICE has renewed accreditation of the process
used by the British Association of Dermatologists
to produce clinical guidelines. The renewed accred-
itation is valid until 31 May 2021 and applies
to guidance produced using the processes described
in the updated guidance for writing a British
Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline –
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016.
The original accreditation term began on 12 May
2010. More information on accreditation can be
viewed at www.nice.org.uk/accreditation.
*Plain language summary available online
DOI 10.1111/bjd.19621
Linked Comment: Leiter-St€oppke. Br J Dermatol 2021; 184:
384–385.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
401
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-
date, evidence-based recommendations for the management of
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). The document
aims to
•
offer an appraisal of all relevant literature up to 30 January
2020, focusing on any key developments,
•
address important, practical clinical questions relating to
the primary guideline objective, and
•
provide guideline recommendations and if appropriate
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in primary, sec-
ondary and tertiary care, in the clinic and in the appropriate
skin cancer multidisciplinary team (MDT) meetings (see sec-
tion 3.0). These may be either local skin MDTs (LSMDTs) or
specialist skin cancer MDTs (SSMDTs), depending on the clini-
copathological features of the SCC. Clinicians treating people
with cSCC should be core members of the appropriate MDT
or sanctioned by the MDT to treat the tumour.1 There is also
an updated patient information leaﬂet available on the BAD
website
(https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-
treatments/).
Exclusions
The guideline does not cover
•
noncutaneous primary SCC or SCC in situ (Bowen disease);
there is a separate guideline for SCC in situ,2
•
mucosal SCC; for the lip the remit of this guideline stops
at the vermillion border, or
•
secondary prevention.3,4
Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s
recommended methodology;5 further information can be
found in Appendix J (see Supporting Information) with
reference to the AGREE II instrument (www.agreetrust.
org)6 and GRADE (https://www.gradeworkinggroup.org).
Recommendations were developed for implementation in
the UK National Health Service (NHS).
The guideline development group (GDG) consisted of
seven consultant dermatologists (representing England, North-
ern Ireland, Scotland and Wales), two consultant clinical
oncologists (radiation oncologists), a consultant plastic sur-
geon, a consultant maxillofacial surgeon, a dermatopatholo-
gist, a general practitioner, a Macmillan dermatology clinical
nurse specialist, two patient representatives and a technical
team (consisting of an information scientist, a guideline
research fellow and a project manager providing methodolog-
ical and technical support).
The GDG established several clinical questions pertinent to
the scope of the guideline and a set of outcome measures of
importance to patients, ranked according to the GRADE
methodology7 (see section 2.1; and Appendix A; see Support-
ing Information).
The GDG agreed to adopt the Royal College of Pathologists
dataset for the histological reporting of cSCC.8 Along with
Public Health England, this endorses the Union for Interna-
tional Cancer Control 8th edition (UICC8)9 (Tables 1 and 2),
rather than the American Joint Committee on Cancer 8th edi-
tion cancer staging manual, which covers only head and neck
cSCC.10 The GDG agreed that risk is part of a spectrum and
not
dichotomous,
and
the
evidence
from
the
literature
searches supported a division based on low-, high- and very
high-risk status. As shown in Figure 1, this division was
achieved by integrating clinical, pathological, tumour–nodes–
metastasis (TNM) staging and margin criteria.
Table 1 TNM8 (tumour–nodes–metastasis) classiﬁcation for cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC)9
T categories
T1
≤2 cm in greatest dimension
T2
> 2 to 4 cm in greatest dimension
T3
> 4 cm in greatest dimension or minor bone erosion
or speciﬁed perineural invasion (≥0.1 mm diameter
and/or deeper than the dermis and/or a named
nerve) or deep invasion (thickness > 6 mm and/or
beyond the subcutaneous fat)
T4a
Tumour with gross cortical bone/marrow invasion
T4b
Tumour with skull base or axial skeleton invasion
including foraminal involvement and/or vertebral
foramen involvement to the epidural space
N categories for non-head and neck
N1
Metastasis in a single node ≤3 cm in greatest
dimension
N2
Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node, > 3 cm
but ≤6 cm or in multiple ipsilateral nodes with none
> 6 cm in greatest dimension
N3
Metastasis in a lymph node > 6 cm in greatest
dimension
N categories head and neck region
N1
Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node ≤3 cm in
greatest dimension without ENEa
N2a
Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node > 3 cm
but < 6 cm in greatest dimension without ENE
N2b
Metastasis in multiple ipsilateral lymph nodes, where
none are > 6 cm in greatest dimension without ENE
N2c
Metastasis in bilateral or contralateral lymph nodes,
where none are > 6 cm in greatest dimension
without ENE
N3a
Metastasis in a single or multiple lymph nodes > 6 cm
in greatest dimension without ENE
N3b
Metastasis in a single or multiple lymph nodes with
ENE
M categories
M0
No distant metastasis
M1
Distant metastasis (including contralateral nodes in
non-head and neck cSCC)
aExtranodal extension (ENE) can be clinical or pathological.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
402 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 3 ===
A systematic literature search of the PubMed, MEDLINE,
Embase and Cochrane databases was conducted by the techni-
cal team to identify key articles on cSCC from 1 January 2007
to 30 January 2020; the search terms and strategies are
detailed in Appendix K (see Supporting Information). Addi-
tional references relevant to the topic were also isolated from
citations in the reviewed literature and the previous versions
of the guidelines.11,12 Data extraction, critical appraisal and
data synthesis were performed by the technical team, who
prepared the evidence summaries, lists of excluded studies and
PRISMA diagram. Evidence from included studies was rated
according to the GRADE system (high, moderate, low or very
low quality).
Recommendations are based on evidence drawn from
systematic reviews of the literature pertaining to the clini-
cal questions identiﬁed, following discussions with the
entire GDG and factoring in all four factors that would
affect
their
strength
ratings
according
to
the
GRADE
approach (i.e. balance between desirable and undesirable
effects, quality of evidence, patient values and preferences,
and resource allocation). All GDG members contributed
towards
drafting
and/or
reviewing
the
narratives
and
information in the guideline and supporting information
documents. When there was insufﬁcient evidence from the
literature, informal consensus was reached based on the
experience of the GDG.
The summary of ﬁndings with forest plots (Appendix B),
clinical evidence summary (Appendix C), tables Linking the
Evidence To the Recommendations (LETR) (Appendix D),
GRADE evidence proﬁles indicating the quality of evidence
(Appendix E), summary of included studies (Appendix F),
narrative ﬁndings for noncomparative studies (Appendix G),
PRISMA ﬂow diagram (Appendix H) and list of excluded stud-
ies (Appendix I) are detailed in the Supporting Information.
The strength of recommendation is expressed by the wording
and symbols shown in Table 3.
Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established a number of clinical questions perti-
nent to the scope of the guideline (for a full review proto-
col see Appendix A in the Supporting Information). The
GDG also established a set of outcome measures of impor-
tance to patients for each clinical question, which were
ranked according to the GRADE methodology7 by the
patient representatives. This uses a nine-point scale, with
outcomes ranked 9 being those the patient representatives
considered most important. Outcomes ranked 9, 8 or 7 are
critical for decision-making; those ranked 6, 5 or 4 are
important but not critical for decision-making; and those
ranked 3, 2 or 1 are the least important for decision-mak-
ing. Data on these outcome measures were extracted from
the included studies (Appendixes B, C, E, F and G; see Sup-
porting Information).
Review question 1: treatment
In people with ‘higher-risk’ primary cSCC, how clinically
effective are surgical (standard and Mohs) and nonsurgical
treatments (radiotherapy and electrochemotherapy) compared
with each other?
•
Survivorship 9
•
Recurrence rate 9
•
Cosmetic outcome 7
•
Convenience of treatment 7
Review question 2: treatment
In people with low-risk primary cSCC how clinically effec-
tive are surgical (standard excision, Mohs, curettage and cau-
tery, cryosurgery and carbon dioxide laser) and nonsurgical
treatments (topical therapies, photodynamic therapy or radio-
therapy) compared with each other or with no treatment (ob-
servation)?
(Radiotherapy
includes
brachytherapy
where
appropriate.)
•
Convenience of treatment 9
•
Cosmetic outcome 7
•
Recurrence rate 7
Review question 3: surgical margin
In people with cSCC who undergo standard surgical exci-
sion, what surgical margin and surgical plane should be used?
•
Lack of clinical recurrence after 5 years 9
•
Lack of clinical recurrence after 2 years 9
Review question 4: involved margins
In people with cSCC who undergo excision of the primary
tumour and where histological analysis shows either one or
more involved or clear-but-close margins (< 1 mm), what is
the appropriate subsequent management?
•
Survivorship 9
•
Recurrence 9
Review question 5: adjuvant radiotherapy
In people with primary cSCC following surgical excision
with clear histological margins, what is the role of adjuvant
radiotherapy
in
reducing
the
risk
of
local
recurrence?
[‘Adjuvant’ in the guidelines refers to any treatment (radio-
therapy) after primary treatment (surgery).]
•
Survivorship 9
•
Recurrence rate 9
•
Cosmetic outcome 7
•
Convenience of treatment 6
•
Patient-reported outcomes 6
Table 2 TNM8 (tumour–nodes–metastasis) stage groups for cSCC9
Stage
T
N
M
I
T1
N0
M0
II
T2
N0
M0
III
T3
N0
M0
T1, T2, T3
N1
M0
IVA
T1, T2, T3
N2, N3
M0
T4
Any N
M0
IVB
Any T
Any N
M1
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 403
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
Figure 1 Guidance for referral to LSMDTs and SSMDTs. This referral guidance relates to primary cSCC, where treatment has been excisional surgery with curative intent. Factors associated with risk of poor
disease-related outcomes (local recurrence, nodal metastasis, disease-speciﬁc death) in multiple studies using univariate or multivariate analysis.13–18 cSCC, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; GP, general
practitioner; HAART, highly active antiretroviral therapy; LSMDT, local skin cancer multidisciplinary team; SCID, severe combined immunodeﬁciency; SSMDT, specialist skin cancer multidisciplinary team.
*Review of nodal basins in the head and neck should be per the criteria of the head and neck MDT. [Colour ﬁgure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
404 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
Review question 6: metastatic squamous cell carcinoma
In people with any metastasis from cSCC how clinically
effective are standard surgical and nonsurgical treatments
(chemotherapeutic
therapy,
radiotherapy,
immunotherapy)
compared with each other or with no treatment (observation)?
(Radiotherapy includes brachytherapy where appropriate.)
•
Survivorship 9
•
Recurrence rate 9
•
Cosmetic outcome 7
•
Convenience of treatment 7
•
Patient-reported outcomes 6
Review question 7: follow-up
In people with a diagnosed higher-risk cSCC what is the
appropriate follow-up period following treatment?
•
Survivorship 9
•
Recurrence 9
•
Metastases 9
•
Patient-reported outcomes 6
Note: in Mohs surgery the tumour is curetted or surgically
debulked, and the defect usually excised with a small (1–2
mm) margin of surrounding skin. The patient waits with a
dressed wound pending histological conﬁrmation by the Mohs
surgeon that the tumour has been completely removed. If
residual tumour is identiﬁed, a further layer of tissue is
removed, and the process repeated until the surgical wound is
conﬁrmed to be tumour free. The wound is then repaired by
conventional surgical techniques.
Summary of recommendations
There are few randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to support
the following guidelines for the management of cSCC. The
following recommendations and ratings were agreed upon
unanimously by the core members of the GDG and patient
representatives. The recommendations cover suspected and
diagnosed cSCC. All recommendations would also generally
relate to children, young people and adults, unless speciﬁed
otherwise. Those under 24 years of age with cSCC should be
managed by the SSMDT but must additionally be referred to
the appropriate children’s, teenagers’ or young adults’ service
for their speciﬁc expertise. These guidelines do not include
speciﬁc recommendations for subungual or periungual SCCs.
For further information on the wording used for recom-
mendations and strength of recommendation ratings see
Table 3. The evidence for recommendations is based on the
studies as listed (for details and discussion of the evidence see
Appendixes B–F in the Supporting Information). The GDG rec-
ommendations relating to referral pathways are based on dis-
cussion and clinical experience, as evidence-based details are
not available at the time of writing. The GDG is aware of the
lack of high-quality evidence for some of these recommenda-
tions, and therefore strong recommendations with an asterisk
(*) are based on available evidence, as well as consensus and
specialist experience. Good practice point (GPP) recommenda-
tions are derived from informal consensus.
Pretreatment
R1 (↑↑) Obtain histological conﬁrmation of cSCC lesions in the
event of diagnostic uncertainty, before planning deﬁnitive treat-
ment. This must be a representative sample of the tumour; in
most instances, this will be a full-thickness incisional biopsy
ideally incorporating both the peripheral and the deep margins.
R2 (GPP) Offer discussion on the risks and beneﬁts of all
treatment options (outcomes, function, cosmesis) to people
with cSCC and their families or carers and make the treatment
decision together.
R3 (↑↑) Record the maximum clinical cSCC lesion dimension
prior to any diagnostic or treatment procedure (usually diame-
ter, in millimetres), the plane of the deep-excision margin,
whether it is a recurrent tumour or in ﬁeld of previous
Table 3 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbol
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, e.g. ‘use’,
‘provide’, ‘take’, ‘investigate’
etc.)
↑↑
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients would
choose the intervention while only a small proportion would not;
for clinicians, most of their patients would receive the
intervention; for policymakers, it would be a useful performance
indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced; most
patients would choose the intervention but many would not;
clinicians would need to consider the pros and cons for the
patient in the context of the evidence; for policymakers it would
be a poor performance indicator where variability in practice is
expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation
against the use of an
intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most patients
would not choose the intervention while only a small proportion
would; for clinicians, most of their patients would not receive the
intervention
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 405
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
radiotherapy, and the immune status of the patient, on the
specimen request form for the pathologist.
R4 (GPP) Take a good-quality clinical photograph of the cSCC
lesion for the patient record to aid future management and
assessment of the area after healing. In multisite disease the
lesions to be treated should ideally be marked on the pho-
tograph to limit the risk of wrong-site procedures.
Treatment options for primary cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma
Standard surgical excision
R5 (↑↑) Offer* standard surgical excision as the ﬁrst-line
treatment option to people with resectable primary cSCC.
R6 (↑↑) Peripheral tumour margins should be determined
under bright lighting and magniﬁcation or dermoscopy.
Excise* with a clinical peripheral surgical margin of
•
≥4 mm for a low-risk cSCC tumour,
•
≥6 mm for a high-risk cSCC tumour,
•
≥10 mm for a very high-risk cSCC tumour.
For deﬁnition of the levels of risk see Figure 1.13–18
R7 (↑↑) Ensure at least a 1-mm histological clearance of cSCC
excisions at all margins by including sufﬁcient peripheral and
deep tissues (see R6 for appropriate standard surgical excision
margins).
•
For mobile lesions the deep margin should be within the
next clear surgical plane, and on the scalp the excision
should include the galea.
•
For deeply inﬁltrating or ﬁxed lesions at any site, achiev-
ing an uninvolved deep histological margin may require
inclusion of one or more of the following – fascia, mus-
cle, bone or other underlying structure – which may be
determined clinically or by imaging, or both.
•
Consideration should be given to excision of a further,
orientated, deep-margin specimen where possible, if there
is clinical concern at the time of resection that the resec-
tion is close or incomplete.
•
Whenever possible conﬁrm uninvolved histological mar-
gins by parafﬁn section analysis prior to reconstruction
involving complex tissue rearrangement where dressings
or temporizing cover can reasonably be achieved. How-
ever, in the context of extensive ablative resections (e.g.
scalp into the calvarium or abutting dura, ear–parotid–
temporal bone, composite maxillofacial resections etc.)
this approach is unlikely to be feasible due to immediate
reconstructive requirements.
•
Where there is extensive disease, and/or involvement of
speciﬁc anatomical areas, consider liaising with one or
more additional MDT depending on the site of the cSCC.
R8 (↑↑) Manage and report excised cSCC specimens according
to the Royal College of Pathologists dataset.8
Multidisciplinary team discussion
R9 (GPP) Document the risk status of cSCC tumour as low
risk, high risk or very high risk in the patient notes (Figure 1).
R10 (↓↓) T1 cSCC tumours excised with histologically clear
margins of at least 1 mm, in the absence of other high-risk
factors, do not need routine discussion at an MDT (Figure 1).
R11 (↑↑) Review the histology of people with cSCC with one
or more involved or clear-but-close margins (< 1 mm) at an
appropriate skin MDT (Figure 1).
R12 (↑) Consider the risk factors for the patient and the mar-
gin, site and tumour stage in people with cSCC with one or
more clear-but-close margins (< 1 mm). Consider observation
in immunocompetent people with cSCC with a low-risk
tumour (Figure 1).
R13 (↑↑) Offer further wide local excision (with likely
delayed reconstruction), Mohs micrographic surgery, or adju-
vant radiotherapy to people with cSCC with one or more
involved margins, or close margins (< 1 mm), where patient
or tumour factors confer higher risk.
R14 (GPP) Offer active treatment to immunosuppressed peo-
ple with cSCC with one or more clear-but-close (< 1 mm) or
involved margins with structured follow-up and surveillance.
R15 (↑↑) Discuss at an SSMDT people with cSCC with symp-
tomatic perineural invasion and/or radiological evidence of
perineural invasion. If discussed at a skin MDT, skull base or
head and neck MDT opinion may be required. Aggressive sur-
gical excision of the involved nerve should be the ﬁrst step,
where technically possible, followed by consideration of adju-
vant radiotherapy.
Mohs micrographic surgery
R16 (↑) Consider Mohs micrographic surgery in selected peo-
ple with cSCC following SSMDT discussion, particularly where
tumour margins are difﬁcult to delineate or in sites where tis-
sue conservation is important for function.
Radiotherapy: primary and postoperative (adjuvant
radiotherapy)
R17 (↑↑) Discuss people with histologically proven cSCC
being considered for radiotherapy at an MDT (LSMDT or
SSMDT) with a clinical oncologist present.
R18 (↑↑) Offer primary radiotherapy
•
to selected people with cSCC as a treatment option follow-
ing appropriate discussion at the appropriate skin MDT
and/or with a clinical or radiation oncologist, factoring in
patient preference, and
•
to people with cSCC when surgery is not feasible or would
be challenging or likely to result in an unacceptable func-
tional or aesthetic outcome.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
406 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
R19 (↑) Consider adjuvant radiotherapy in people with cSCC
•
if pathological excision margins are clear but close (< 1
mm) following discussion at an appropriate skin MDT,
where a clinical oncologist is present, and
•
with completely excised T3 tumours, where there are mul-
tiple high-risk factors, including those > 6 mm in thick-
ness (depth) and invasion beyond subcutaneous fat.
R20 (↑↑) Offer adjuvant radiotherapy to people with incom-
pletely excised cSCC, where further surgery is not possible (or
is not chosen by the patient) and in those at high risk of local
recurrence
•
in the case of perineural invasion (multifocal, named nerve
and/or diameter of nerve > 01 mm, below the dermis),
•
in recurrent disease, and
•
in those who are immunocompromised (see R21).
R21 (↓↓) Do not offer postoperative radiotherapy to people
with completely excised T1 or T2 cSCC and with microscopic,
dermal-only, nerve diameter < 01 mm perineural invasion.
R22 (↑) Consider conformal radiotherapy including the entire
course of the involved nerve in people with cSCC with symp-
tomatic perineural invasion and/or radiological evidence of
perineural invasion when surgery is inappropriate, after care-
fully weighing the beneﬁts and side-effects from radiotherapy
to such an extensive radiotherapy treatment ﬁeld.
R23 (GPP) Inform younger people with cSCC (age < 60
years), especially if they are an organ transplant recipient, of
the very low risk of radiation-induced, in-ﬁeld malignancy in
the future. Take this risk into account when making any treat-
ment decision.
Curettage and cautery
R24 (↑) Consider curettage and cautery with curative intent
in immunocompetent people with small (< 1 cm), well-de-
ﬁned, nonrecurrent, clinically low-risk cSCC.
R25 (GPP) Review the histology of cSCC removed by curet-
tage and cautery to identify high-risk or very high-risk fea-
tures. If these are identiﬁed, the case should be discussed at an
appropriate MDT regarding further management.
Locally advanced, recurrent and metastatic cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma
R26 (GPP) Do not routinely offer imaging of the draining
nodal basin to people with cSCC in the absence of suspected
or clinically detectable regional nodal involvement. Very high-
risk lesions, such as pT2 or greater lip cSCC, carry a high risk
of occult metastasis and consideration can be given to high-
resolution ultrasound scan of the regional nodes in the clini-
cally N0 setting.
R27 (↑↑) Initiate an individualized SSMDT, multimodality and
imaging treatment plan for people
•
with regional lymph node metastasis,
•
who are immunocompromised and with locally advanced
and/or metastatic cSCC,
•
with in transit metastases from cSCC, and
•
with metastatic cSCC who have had further locoregional
relapse following lymphadenectomy.
R28 (GPP) Where assessment of the anatomical extent of a
primary cSCC warrants imaging, consider including regional
lymph nodes in the scan.
R29 (GPP) Only consider sentinel lymph node biopsy for
speciﬁc, high-risk cases of primary cSCC in the context of a
clinical trial or SSMDT discussion.3
R30 (GPP) Offer ultrasound-guided ﬁne-needle aspiration
cytology to people with cSCC with clinically suspicious nodes. If
they are negative and suspicion remains, this can be repeated,
although core or open-biopsy histology may be required.
R31 (GPP) Undertake high-resolution magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) of the involved area in people with cSCC with
in transit metastasis or regional perineural invasion of named
nerves. Discuss with a radiologist if MRI is contraindicated.
(In transit metastasis is a type of metastasis in which skin can-
cer spreads through a lymph vessel and begins to grow
between the area of previous treatment and the nodal basin.)
R32 (↑↑) Offer therapeutic regional lymphadenectomy to peo-
ple with head and neck cSCC with regional lymph node
metastasis. (Regional lymphadenectomy is a surgical procedure
in which the lymph nodes that drain the site of the tumour
are removed to an extent that has therapeutic rather than diag-
nostic or palliative intent. The tissue is subsequently checked
under the microscope for signs of cancer.) Imaging is required
preoperatively to deﬁne the extent of locoregional relapse, and
to identify distant metastatic disease (also see R36). The head
and neck imaging should include locoregional MRI or com-
puted tomography (CT), and CT imaging of the chest as a
minimum. The surgery should be performed by a designated
surgeon who is a core member of the SSMDT pathway and
compliant with prevailing multispecialty guidance.
•
Where the parotid gland has proven nodal metastasis and
the neck is cN0, a therapeutic parotidectomy, usually the
superﬁcial lobe alone, should be combined with an elec-
tive selective neck dissection of levels I–III. If an anterior
scalp or temple primary site has proven neck nodal metas-
tasis, consideration should be given to an elective superﬁ-
cial parotidectomy at the time of therapeutic neck nodal
dissection.
•
Where the neck has proven nodal metastasis, the therapeutic
neck dissection should include levels and structures to maxi-
mize tumour clearance, while minimizing unnecessary mor-
bidity. It may be appropriate to preserve a clinically and
radiologically uninvolved level I where the primary tumour
was posterior, thus to carry out a posterolateral neck dissec-
tion of levels II–V. Consideration can also be given to preser-
vation of an uninvolved, level V where the primary tumour
site was in the central lower face.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 407
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
•
Nodes in the superﬁcial system, such as the occipital
nodes, or external jugular node should also be included in
a dissection, according to the primary site, and the identi-
ﬁed sites of metastasis.
R33 (↑↑) Offer therapeutic regional lymphadenectomy to peo-
ple with non-head and neck cSCC with regional lymph node
metastases in axillary, inguinofemoral or other peripheral
draining nodes. Imaging is required preoperatively to deﬁne
the extent of locoregional relapse, and to identify distant
metastatic disease (also see R36). In the axilla, CT imaging
should include the neck, chest and axilla as a minimum and
the surgery should include levels I–III. In the inguinofemoral
region CT imaging should include the chest–abdomen–pelvis
and to midthigh level and the surgery should include superﬁ-
cial and deep levels.
•
Therapeutic extended ilio-inguinofemoral lymphadenec-
tomy is indicated in those with additional iliac nodal cSCC
on imaging or cytology.
•
Elective extended ilio-inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy
should also be considered, at the SSMDT, for people with
extensive inguinofemoral relapse (multiple nodes, any > 3
cm, plus or minus extranodal extension) who do not have
concurrent evidence of iliac relapse on imaging or cytol-
ogy but are deemed to be at high risk of microscopic dis-
ease in the extended basin.
•
Nodal disease at other ectopic sites should have individual-
ized imaging under guidance from the SSMDT.
•
The surgery should be performed by a designated surgeon
of the SSMDT pathway who is compliant with prevailing
multispecialty guidance.
R34 (↑↑) Offer adjuvant radiotherapy following therapeutic
regional lymphadenectomy to people with cSCC with high-
risk pathology (e.g. two or more nodes, large nodes and
extracapsular extension), deﬁned by UICC8 as ≥pN1.
R35 (GPP) Consider surgical resection (with or without adju-
vant radiotherapy) or primary radiotherapy in people with
locally recurrent cSCC.
R36 (GPP) Consider regional lymphadenectomy or regional
lymph node basin irradiation in selected people with cSCC
for disease control even in the presence of distant metas-
tases, especially in those undergoing multimodality treat-
ment.
R37 (↑) Consider immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment in
people with locally advanced cSCC where curative surgery or
radiotherapy is not reasonable, or those with metastatic cSCC,
except patients with organ transplants or those who have sig-
niﬁcant autoimmune conditions.
R38
(↑)
Consider
systemic
chemotherapy
or
epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors in people with meta-
static cSCC with contraindications to immune checkpoint inhi-
bitors. Responses are generally short lived and chemotherapy
is
poorly
tolerated
in
elderly
and
frail
people,
and
consideration for best supportive care should be made. EGFR
inhibitors are unlicensed for cSCC in the UK.
R39 (GPP) Consider electrochemotherapy in people with
locally advanced cSCC in palliative settings if other local or
systemic therapies are not appropriate.
Follow-up
R40 (↑↑) Offer access to a key worker to people with cSCC,
ideally a clinical nurse specialist, as part of an ongoing treat-
ment prevention package.19 Provide information on the diag-
nosis and management of cSCC.
R41 (GPP) Follow up people with cSCC by examining the
skin and lymph node basins and with any other appropriate
clinical examination.
R42 (GPP) Educate people with cSCC on self-examination
(skin and lymph nodes) and sun protection by providing
appropriate verbal and written information (e.g. www.bad.
org.uk/leaflets).
R43 (GPP) Offer people with low-risk cSCC a single post-treat-
ment appointment, where appropriate, to check histopathology
results, conduct skin and nodal surveillance and facilitate patient
education on self-examination and surveillance of patients’ own
digital photographs (patient education could have already taken
place at the pretreatment appointment). Provide information on
the 5-year risk of developing further cSCC and on how to access
a referral, including the 2-week-wait pathway back into the sys-
tem if they suspect a new lesion.
R44 (GPP) Offer people with high-risk cSCC (especially
when several risk factors apply) post-treatment follow-up
appointments at 4-monthly intervals for 12 months, then at
6-monthy intervals for a further 12 months. The initial fol-
low-up should be with secondary-care clinicians to facilitate
skin surveillance and patient education on self-examination.
Later appointments may be with other clinicians able to recog-
nize recurrences and new skin cancers according to local
arrangements approved by the appropriate skin MDT.
R45 (GPP) Offer people with very high-risk cSCC post-treat-
ment follow-up appointments at 4-monthly intervals for 24
months, then at 6-monthly intervals for a further 12 months.
The initial follow-up should be with secondary-care clinicians
to facilitate skin surveillance and patient education on self-ex-
amination. Later appointments may be made with other clini-
cians able to recognize recurrences and new skin cancers
according to local arrangements approved by the appropriate
skin MDT. People who have a high risk of developing further
high-risk, primary cSCC, such as organ transplant recipients,
should remain under lifelong skin surveillance.
R46 (GPP) Offer people with metastatic cSCC post-treatment
follow-up appointments at 3-monthly intervals for 24 months,
then at 6-monthy intervals for a further 36 months, with
potential longer-term review dependent on patient factors.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
408 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
Imaging should be performed on the basis of clinical ﬁndings,
with SSMDT discussion if appropriate.
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommenda-
tion for cryotherapy, CO2 laser or topical therapies in the
treatment of cSCC.
List of key future research recommendations
The following list outlines future research recommendations
(FRRs).
FRR1 Research should identify which clinicopathological or
molecular factors predict poor outcome, which might facilitate
a scoring system (1–5) for risk.
FRR2 Future cancer-related RCTs need to include more people
with cSCC, with stratiﬁcation of the results by risk factors.
FRR3 Future skin cancer clinical studies need to differentiate
outcomes clearly by histopathology (i.e. SCC or basal cell car-
cinoma) and stage.
FRR4
Prospective,
head-to-head
RCTs
for
primary
cSCC
reporting (i) 5-year recurrence rates, (ii) quality of life and
(iii) long- and short-term adverse effects, including pain,
function and cosmetic appearance
•
comparing surgical interventions with modern standard-
ized two-dimensional histopathology,
•
evaluating the role of adjuvant radiotherapy in resected
primary cSCC,
•
comparing further surgery vs. radiotherapy in incom-
pletely resected primary cSCC, and
•
comparing adjuvant radiotherapy (margins, techniques)
after surgical excision of higher-risk cSCC.
FRR5 All future RCTs involving cSCC need to report standard-
ized outcome measures (e.g. time to recurrence, standardized
quality-of-life scales) to facilitate comparisons and pooling of
data across studies.
FRR6 A study evaluating the cost and resource implications of
different treatment options for people with cSCC in the UK
NHS healthcare setting.
FRR7 Alternative immunotherapy strategies suitable for people
with inoperable, locally advanced cSCC, not amenable to radi-
cal radiotherapy, or metastatic cSCC in whom immune check-
point inhibitors are contraindicated.
FRR8 There is a need for a review of the treatments of cSCC
in those who are at increased risk of developing SCC (e.g.
those with impaired immunity or genetic conditions).
FRR9 The role of sentinel lymph node biopsy in the staging
of very high-risk cSCC given the propensity of these tumours
to metastasize.
Algorithms
The recommendations, discussions in the LETRs (Appendix D;
see
Supplementary
Information)
and
consensus
specialist
experience were used to inform the algorithm and pathway of
care (Figures 2 and 3).
Background
Deﬁnition
Primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is a malig-
nant tumour that arises from the keratinocytes of the epider-
mis or its hair follicles. It is locally invasive and has the
potential to metastasize.20
Incidence and aetiology
The rate of nonmelanoma skin cancer is at least 24 times higher
than that of the next most common tumour in the UK, which is
breast cancer.21 Recent evidence suggests that this is still an
underestimate for skin cancer due to under-reporting.22 cSCC is
the sixth most common cancer in the UK21,22 and its incidence
continues to rise, not only in the UK but also in many other
countries.22–24 This will have an increasing impact on planning
for NHS services and on histopathology services.22,25
Its occurrence is usually related to chronic ultraviolet (UV)
exposure and is therefore especially common in people with
sun-damaged skin, fair skin, albinism and xeroderma pigmen-
tosum. Additionally, increasing longevity may also be respon-
sible for the increasing incidence of these tumours. It may
develop de novo – as a result of previous exposure to UV and
ionizing radiation, or chemicals such as pesticides, herbicides
or arsenic; within chronic wounds, scars, burns, ulcers or
sinus tracts; or from pre-existing lesions such as SCC in situ
(Bowen disease).23,24 A high incidence of aggressive cSCC is
found in individuals with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis
bullosa (RDEB), where it is a major cause of death. In RDEB,
the aetiology of cSCC is chronic wounding, not UV exposure.
Individuals with impaired immune function, for example
those receiving immunosuppressive drugs following allogeneic
organ transplantation or for inﬂammatory disease, and those
with lymphoma or leukaemia, are at increased risk of this
tumour. Some cSCCs are associated with human papillo-
mavirus infection.26 The risk of cSCC with the ‘biologic’ ther-
apies (for inﬂammatory or haematological disease) has yet to
be accurately quantiﬁed.27,28
There is good evidence linking cSCCs with chronic actinic
damage (including that from the use of tanning devices)29 and
to support sun avoidance, use of protective clothing and effec-
tive sun blocks30 in the prevention of actinic keratoses and
cSCCs. These measures are particularly important for people
receiving long-term immunosuppressive medication.31 People
who have had psoralen–UVA therapy for skin conditions may
also be at higher risk.32 cSCC may also occur in patients who
are being treated with BRAF inhibitors for melanoma.33
People with organ transplants are at high risk of developing
cSCC. Skin surveillance to allow early detection and treatment,
and measures to prevent cSCC, should be part of their routine
care. In patients with multiple, frequent or high-risk cSCCs
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 409
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
Figure 2 Staging and management pathway of primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). FNAB, ﬁne-needle aspiration biopsy; FNAC,
ﬁne-needle aspiration cytology; LSMDT, local skin cancer multidisciplinary team; SSMDT, specialist skin cancer multidisciplinary team; USS,
ultrasound scan. [Colour ﬁgure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
410 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
Figure 3 Treatment pathway for primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) in adults. ART, adjuvant radiotherapy; laSCC, locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma; mSCC, metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma; SSMDT, specialist skin cancer multidisciplinary team. [Colour ﬁgure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 411
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
consideration should be given to modifying immunosuppres-
sive regimens34,35 and the prophylactic use of systemic
retinoids,36–38 which may also be valuable in other high-risk
groups.39 Nicotinamide should also be considered in this situ-
ation.40 Therapies such as topical 5-ﬂuorouracil41 and imiqui-
mod,42 and photodynamic therapy43 may have useful roles in
preventing skin dysplasia and therefore decreasing the risk of
skin cancers in high-risk renal transplant recipients, but sub-
stantive evidence is awaited.
Diagnosis and investigation
Clinical presentation
SCC usually presents as an indurated nodular keratinizing or
crusted tumour that may ulcerate, or it may present as an
ulcer without evidence of keratinization. All patients in whom
there is a possibility of a cSCC should be referred urgently to
an appropriately trained specialist who is attached to an
LSMDT, usually in their local dermatology department’s rapid-
access skin cancer clinic.44
Diagnosis and staging
The handling of skin cancer specimens and their histopatho-
logical diagnosis and reporting should conform to the Royal
College of Pathologists dataset for primary cSCC.8 The Royal
College of Pathologists and Public Health England have
adopted UICC8 TNM9 for the staging of melanoma and non-
melanoma skin cancer.
Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive patients with cSCC is there clear
documentation for or evidence of the
1
Name and grade of the surgeon who carried out the sur-
gery?
2
Patient being instructed in self-examination and provided
with written patient information (e.g. www.bad.org.uk/
leaflets)?
3
Site and maximum dimension (usually diameter) of the
lesion?
4
Lesion being ﬁxed or mobile beneath the skin (head,
neck, trunk and limbs)?
5
Lesion having tarsal plate or lid margin involvement, or
not (eyelid)?
6
Immunosuppressive status of the patient?
7
Risk status of the lesion (low risk, high risk or very high
risk)?
8
Lesion having associated clinically detectable nodes, or
being clinically N0?
9
Standard surgical excision, detailing
a
The surgical margins of excision (R6; and see below)?
Note: these are ≥4 mm for low-risk, ≥6 mm for
high-risk and ≥10 mm for very high-risk cSCC.
b The anatomical description of the deep margin?
10 Histological margins in all planes following standard sur-
gical excision? Note: these are deﬁned as clear (≥1
mm), clear but close (< 1 mm) or involved (0 mm).
11 Appropriate follow-up protocols (R43, R45, R46 and
see below) by different members of the MDT, including
clinical nurse specialists? Note: follow-up schedules are
low-risk: one appointment for diagnosis and educa-
tion; high-risk: a follow-up every 4 months in the
ﬁrst year then every 6 months in the second year;
and very high-risk: a follow-up every 4 months in
the ﬁrst and second years, then every 6 months in
the third year.
12 Recording and review of histologically proven recurrence
of cSCC during follow-up periods following both surgical
and nonsurgical treatments?
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient and
allow benchmarking between different units (Appendix L; see
Supporting Information).
Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The draft document and Supporting Information were made
available to the BAD membership, the Royal College of Gen-
eral Practitioners (RCGP), the Royal College of Pathologists
(RCPath), the Royal College of Radiologists (RCR), the British
Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons (BAOMS), the
British Association of Head and Neck Oncologists (BAHNO),
the British Association of Plastic Reconstructive and Aesthetic
Surgeons (BAPRAS), the British Society for Dermatological
Surgery (BSDS), the British Dermatological Nursing Group
(BDNG), the British Association of Skin Cancer Nurse Special-
ists (BASCNS) and the Primary Care Dermatological Society
(PCDS). The comments received were actively considered by
the GDG. Following further review, the ﬁnalized version was
sent for peer review by the Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD
(made up of the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee) prior
to submission for publication.
Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results of
future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review to English-
and German-language references was a pragmatic decision but
the authors recognize this may exclude some important infor-
mation published in other languages.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
412 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2025; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to Professor Fiona Bath-Hextall for her advice
on formulating the protocols, and Dr Stephen Kownacki (PCDS),
Dr Virginia Wolstenholme (RCR), Ms Liz Freeman (BDNG) and Dr
Robert Herd for their contribution at the inception of these guide-
lines. We thank the patient representatives Ms Patricia Fairbrother
and Mr Paul Buckley for their input in formulating the clinical
questions, ranking of the outcomes, reviewing the evidence and
formulating the recommendations, as well as all of those who
commented on the draft during the consultation period.
References
1 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Improving out-
comes for people with skin tumours including melanoma. Avail-
able
at:
https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/csg8/evidence/full-
guideline-2006-pdf-2191950685 (last accessed 20 October 2020).
2 Morton CA, Birnie AJ, Eedy DJ. British Association of Dermatolo-
gists’ guidelines for the management of squamous cell carcinoma
in situ (Bowen’s disease) 2014. Br J Dermatol 2014; 170:245–60.
3 National Comprehensive Cancer Network. NCCN Guidelines: squa-
mous cell skin cancer. Available at: https://www.nccn.org/professiona
ls/physician_gls/pdf/squamous.pdf (last accessed 20 October 2020).
4 Lopez AT, Carvajal RD, Geskin L. Secondary prevention strategies
for nonmelanoma skin cancer. Oncology (Williston Park) 2018;
32:195–200.
5 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Updated guidance for
writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline:
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J Dermatol 2017;
176:44–51.
6 Brouwers M, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in healthcare.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
7 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging consen-
sus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommenda-
tions. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
8 Slater DN, Barrett P. Dataset for the histological reporting of pri-
mary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and regional lymph
nodes. Available at: https://www.rcpath.org/uploads/assets/9c1d
8f71-5d3b-4508-8e6200f11e1f4a39/Dataset-for-histopathological-
reporting-of-primary-invasive-cutaneous-squamous-cell-carcinoma-
and-regional-lymph-nodes.pdf (last accessed 20 October 2020).
9 Brierley JD, Gospodarowicz MK, Wittekind C. Skin tumours. In:
TNM Classiﬁcation Of Malignant Tumours, 8th edn (Brierley JD, Gospo-
darowicz MK, Wittekind C, eds), Chichester: John Wiley and Sons,
2017, 131–49.
10 Califano JA, Lydiatt WM, Nehal KS et al. Cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck. In: AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 8th
edn (Amin MB, Edge SB, Greene FL, Byrd DR, Brookland RK et al.,
eds). New York: Springer, 2017; 171–81.
11 Motley R, Kersey P, Lawrence C. Multiprofessional guidelines for
the management of the patient with primary cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol 2002; 146:18–25.
12 Motley RJ, Preston PW, Lawrence CM. Multi-professional guideli-
nes for the management of the patient with primary cutaneous
squamous cell carcinoma. Available at: http://www.bad.org.uk/
shared/get-ﬁle.ashx?id=59&itemtype=document (last accessed 20
October 2020).
13 Eigentler TK, Leiter U, H€afner HM et al. Survival of patients with
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma: results of a prospective
cohort study. J Invest Dermatol 2017; 137:2309–15.
14 Rose AM, Nicoll KJ, Moinie A et al. Patients with low-risk cuta-
neous squamous cell carcinoma do not require extended out-pa-
tient follow-up. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg 2017; 70:852–5.
15 Rowe DE, Carroll RJ, Day CL. Prognostic factors for local recur-
rence, metastasis, and survival rates in squamous cell carcinoma of
the skin, ear, and lip. Implications for treatment modality selec-
tion. J Am Acad Dermatol 1992; 26:976–90.
16 Ruiz ES, Karia PS, Besaw R et al. Performance of the American Joint
Committee on Cancer Staging Manual, 8th Edition versus the Brigham
and Women’s Hospital Tumor Classiﬁcation System for Cutaneous
Squamous Cell Carcinoma. JAMA Dermatol 2019; 155:819–25.
17 Jambusaria-Pahlajani A, Kanetsky PA, Karia PS et al. Evaluation of
AJCC tumor staging for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and a
proposed alternative tumor staging system. JAMA Dermatol 2013;
149:402–10.
18 Wehner MR, Linos E, Parvataneni R et al. Timing of subsequent
new tumors in patients who present with basal cell carcinoma or
cutaneous
squamous
cell
carcinoma.
JAMA
Dermatol
2015;
151:382–8.
19 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Skin cancer.
Quality standard QS130. Available at: https://www.nice.org.uk/
guidance/qs130 (last accessed 20 October 2020).
20 Kwa RE, Campana K, Moy RL. Biology of cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma. J Am Acad Dermatol 1992; 26:1–26.
21 Cancer Research UK. Non-melanoma skin cancer incidence. Avail-
able at: https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/health-professional/ca
ncer-statistics/statistics-by-cancer-type/non-melanoma-skin-cance
r#heading-zero (last accessed 20 October 2020).
22 Venables ZC, Nijsten T, Wong KF et al. Epidemiology of basal and
cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in the UK 2013–15: a cohort
study. Br J Dermatol 2019; 181:474–82.
23 Que SKT, Zwald FO, Schmults CD. Cutaneous squamous cell carci-
noma: incidence, risk factors, diagnosis, and staging. J Am Acad Der-
matol 2018; 78:237–47.
24 Green AC, Olsen CM. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma: an epi-
demiological review. Br J Dermatol 2017; 177:373–81.
25 Goon PK, Greenberg DC, Igali L et al. Squamous cell carcinoma of
the skin has more than doubled over the last decade in the UK.
Acta Derm Venereol 2016; 96:820–1.
26 Tommasino M. HPV and skin carcinogenesis. Papillomavirus Res
2019; 7:129–31.
27 Scott FI, Mamtani R, Brensinger CM et al. Risk of nonmelanoma
skin cancer associated with the use of immunosuppressant and
biologic agents in patients with a history of autoimmune disease
and nonmelanoma skin cancer. JAMA Dermatol 2016; 152:164–72.
28 Patel RV, Clark LN, Lebwohl M et al. Treatments for psoriasis and
the risk of malignancy. J Am Acad Dermatol 2009; 60:1001–17.
29 Karagas MR, Stannard VA, Mott LA et al. Use of tanning devices
and risk of basal cell and squamous cell skin cancers. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2002; 94:224–6.
30 van der Pols JC, Williams GM, Pandeya N et al. Prolonged preven-
tion of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin by regular sunscreen
use. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2006; 15:2546–8.
31 Ulrich C, Jurgensen JS, Degen A et al. Prevention of non-melanoma
skin cancer in organ transplant patients by regular use of a
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al. 413
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
sunscreen: a 24 months, prospective, case–control study. Br J Der-
matol 2009; 161 (Suppl. 3):78–84.
32 Stern RS, PUVA Follow-Up Study. The risk of squamous cell and
basal cell cancer associated with psoralen and ultraviolet A therapy:
a 30-year prospective study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2012; 66:553–62.
33 Gibney GT, Messina JL, Fedorenko IV et al. Paradoxical oncogenesis
– the long-term effects of BRAF inhibition in melanoma. Nat Rev
Clin Oncol 2013; 10:390–9.
34 Mittal A, Colegio OR. Skin cancers in organ transplant recipients.
Am J Transplant 2017; 17:2509–30.
35 Collins L, Quinn A, Stasko T. Skin cancer and immunosuppression.
Dermatol Clin 2019; 37:83–94.
36 Otley CC, Stasko T, Tope WD et al. Chemoprevention of non-
melanoma skin cancer with systemic retinoids: practical dosing
and management of adverse effects. Dermatol Surg 2006; 32:562–8.
37 Herold M, Good AJ, Nielson CB et al. Use of topical and systemic
retinoids in solid organ transplant recipients: update and review
of the current literature. Dermatol Surg 2019; 45:1442–9.
38 Que SKT, Zwald FO, Schmults CD. Cutaneous squamous cell carci-
noma: management of advanced and high-stage tumors. J Am Acad
Dermatol 2018; 78:249–61.
39 Nijsten TE, Stern RS. Oral retinoid use reduces cutaneous squamous
cell carcinoma risk in patients with psoriasis treated with psoralen-
UVA: a nested cohort study. J Am Acad Dermatol 2003; 49:644–50.
40 Chen AC, Martin AJ, Choy B et al. A phase 3 randomized trial of
nicotinamide for skin-cancer chemoprevention. N Engl J Med 2015;
373:1618–26.
41 Weinstock MA, Thwin SS, Siegel JA et al. Chemoprevention of
basal and squamous cell carcinoma with a single course of ﬂuo-
rouracil, 5%, cream: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Dermatol
2018; 154:167–74.
42 Brown VL, Atkins CL, Ghali L et al. Safety and efﬁcacy of 5% imi-
quimod cream for the treatment of skin dysplasia in high-risk
renal transplant recipients: randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled trial. Arch Dermatol 2005; 141:985–93.
43 Togsverd-Bo K, Omland SH, Wulf HC et al. Primary prevention of
skin dysplasia in renal transplant recipients with photodynamic ther-
apy: a randomized controlled trial. Am J Transplant 2015; 15:2986–90.
44 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Suspected can-
cer: recognition and referral. NICE clinical guideline NG12. Avail-
able at: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng12 (last accessed
20 October 2020).
Appendix
Conﬂicts of interest
The following interests were declared over the duration of the
guideline development. P.G.B.: RCSEng RSPA Plastics South
Central (demitted 2016), Deputy Chair TVCN Skin Cancer TSSG
(demitted 2020) (speciﬁc). K.F.: (i) advisory boards – ESAI,
IPSEN, Roche, Novartis, Merck, Pﬁzer and Eusa (speciﬁc); (ii)
speaker fees and consultancy – BMS, Pﬁzer, MSD (non-speci-
ﬁc); (iii) conference hospitality – Novartis, Ipsen (speciﬁc);
(iv) institutional research funding – Roche, MSD, Exelixis
(speciﬁc). C.A.H.: (i) speaker and honoraria for Sanoﬁ(speci-
ﬁc); (ii) member of the NCRI Skin Group (speciﬁc) and mem-
ber of the EADO guidelines development group for cSCC
(speciﬁc). J.R.M.: member of the NCRI non-melanoma skin
cancer subgroup (speciﬁc). C.N.: (i) member of the NCRI non-
melanoma skin cancer subgroup (speciﬁc); (ii) has shares in a
private general practitioner web-based company (non-speciﬁc).
C.P.: (i) Chair of the Scottish Dermatological Society Skin Can-
cer Group (speciﬁc); (ii) member of the NCRI Skin Group
(speciﬁc); (iii) member of the NCRI non-melanoma skin can-
cer subgroup (speciﬁc); (iv) clinical expert for appraisal of
cemiplimab for cSCC for NICE (April 2019) (speciﬁc). A.R.: (i)
member of the NCRI Skin Group (speciﬁc); (ii) member of the
NCRI non-melanoma skin cancer subgroup (speciﬁc); (iii)
Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer Advisory Board prior to ESMO
2018 on cemiplimab for Sanoﬁ(speciﬁc). D.N.S.: Royal College
of Pathologists Lead on Skin Cancer Datasets (speciﬁc). S.G.K.,
J.B., O.M.D., R.M., R.J.M., C.N., J.A.S., P.B., P.F., M.H.,
M.F.M.M. and L.S.E. declare they have no conﬂicts of interest.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix A Review protocol.
Appendix B Forest plots.
Appendix C Clinical evidence summary.
Appendix D Linking Evidence To Recommendations (LETR).
Appendix E GRADE evidence tables.
Appendix F Summary of included studies.
Appendix G Narrative ﬁndings for non-comparative studies.
Appendix H PRISMA diagram: study selection.
Appendix I Papers excluded from quantitative analysis.
Appendix J Methodology.
Appendix K Search strategy.
Appendix L Audit standards, data items and data collection
methodology.
© 2020 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2021) 184, pp401–414
414 BAD guidelines for management of people with SCC 2020, S.G. Keohane et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/184/3/401/6702204 by guest on 06 May 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 75 at Week 4 
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9% 
(n=265/349)
of patients 
with PsO achieved 
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9% 
(N=52)† 
of biologic-naïve  
and TNFi-IR PsA patients 
achieved ACR 50 at  
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients  
with PsO achieved  
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6% 
(n=135/267) 
51.5% 
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and 
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults 
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination 
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have 
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded 
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded 
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe 
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.  
Please refer to the SmPC for further information. 
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data 
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data). 
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary 
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8% 
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP, 
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s 
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100, 
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic 
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3. 
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral 
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported. 
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for 
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at  
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE, 
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections 
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex 
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site 
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers 
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and 
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
