

========== PAGE 1 ==========

GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for the
management of people with chronic urticaria 2021*
R.A. Sabroe iD ,1 F. Lawlor,2 C.E.H. Grattan,2 M.R. Ardern-Jones iD ,3 A. Bewley iD ,4 L. Campbell,5 C. Flohr iD ,2
T.A. Leslie,6 A.M. Marsland,7 G. Ogg iD ,8 W.A.C. Sewell,9 M. Hashme,10 L.S. Exton iD ,10
M.F. Mohd Mustapa iD ,10 M.C. Ezejimofor iD 10 and on behalf of the British Association of Dermatologists’
Clinical Standards Unit
Correspondence
Ruth A Sabroe.
Email: guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
29 October 2021
The author afﬁliations can be found in the Appendix.
Conﬂicts of interest
The following interests were declared over the duration of the guideline development.
C.E.H.G.: honoraria and research investigator – Novartis – speciﬁc. M.R.A.-J.: (1)
sponsorship to conferences – Allergy Therapeutics, Novartis, Celgene – speciﬁc; (2)
grant/research support – AbbVie, Emblation, Unilever – nonspeciﬁc. A.B.: (1) consul-
tant, AbbVie, Almirall, Eli Lilly, LEO Pharma, Galderma, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, Jans-
sen Pharmaceuticals, UCB – speciﬁc. C.F.: sponsorship to attend a conference –
Novartis – speciﬁc; (2) travel grants from LEO Pharma, Almirall, Novartis – speciﬁc;
(3) investigator-initiated studies from Janssen and LEO Pharma – nonspeciﬁc. T.A.L.:
advisory board – Galderma, La Roche-Posay, Novartis – speciﬁc. A.M.M.: (1) consul-
tant and advisory board – Novartis – speciﬁc; (2) invited speaker – Novartis – spe-
ciﬁc. G.O.: advisory board – Novartis – speciﬁc. R.A.S., F.L., L.C., W.A.C.S., M.H.
L.S.E., M.F.M.M. and M.C.E. declare they have no conﬂicts of interest.
Produced in 2001 by the British Association of Dermatologists. Reviewed and updated
2010, 2021
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines Subcommittee
(T&G). Members of the Clinical Standards Unit who have been involved are N.J. Levell
(Chair, T&G), S.L. Chua, P. Laws, H. Frow, A. Bardhan, A. Daunton, G. Petrof, M.
Hashme (BAD Information Scientist), L.S. Exton (BAD Senior Guideline Research Fel-
low), M.C. Ezejimofor (BAD Guideline Research Fellow) and M.F. Mohd Mustapa
(BAD Director of Clinical Standards).
*Plain language summary available online
DOI 10.1111/bjd.20892
NICE has renewed accreditation of the process used by the British
Association of Dermatologists to produce clinical guidelines. The
renewed accreditation is valid until 31 May 2026 and applies to
guidance produced using the processes described in the updated
guidance for writing a British Association of Dermatologists clini-
cal guideline – the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016.
The original accreditation term began on 12 May 2010. More
information on accreditation can be viewed at www.nice.org.uk/
accreditation.
1. Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the management of urti-
caria. The document aims to
•
offer an appraisal of all relevant literature up to March
2020, focusing on any key developments,
•
address important, practical clinical questions relating to
the primary guideline objective, and
•
provide guideline recommendations and if appropriate
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in primary, sec-
ondary and tertiary care, in addition to an updated patient
information leaﬂet (PIL; available on the BAD Skin Health
Information website, https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-
conditions-treatments).
1.1 Exclusions
Other than providing background information, the guideline
does not cover angio-oedema without weals [other than idio-
pathic, which is now classiﬁed as part of chronic spontaneous
urticaria (CSU)], hereditary angio-oedema, autoinﬂammatory
syndromes or differential diagnosis. Additionally, the guideline
focuses on chronic rather than acute urticaria.
2. Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology.1 Further information can be found
in Appendix J (see Supporting Information) with reference to
the AGREE II instrument (www.agreetrust.org)2 and GRADE.3
The recommendations were developed for implementation in
the UK National Health Service (NHS).
The Guideline Development Group (GDG), which consisted
of eight consultant dermatologists managing adults, children
and young people; a consultant immunologist; a consultant
psychodermatologist; a drug allergy specialist; two patient rep-
resentatives and a technical team (consisting of an information
scientist, guideline research fellows and a project manager
providing methodological and technical support), established
a number of clinical questions pertinent to the scope of the
guideline and two sets of outcome measures of importance to
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
398
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 2 ==========

patients, ranked according to the GRADE methodology (sec-
tion 2.1; and Appendix A; see Supporting Information).
A systematic literature search of the PubMed, MEDLINE,
Embase and Cochrane databases was conducted to identify key
articles on urticaria from January 2007 to March 2020. An
additional, targeted literature search for the antihistamines
acrivastine and bilastine was also carried out (from January
1980 to March 2020). Subsequently published papers known
to the GDG were included. The ﬁnal literature searches were
run ahead of journal submission in 2021 to ensure currency.
The search terms and strategies are detailed in Appendix K
(see Supporting Information). Additional references relevant
to the topic were also isolated from citations in the reviewed
literature and the previous version of the guideline.4 Evidence
from the included studies was graded according to the GRADE
system (high, moderate, low or very low certainty).
The recommendations are based on evidence drawn from
systematic reviews of the literature pertaining to the clinical
questions identiﬁed, following discussions with the entire
GDG and factoring in all four factors that would affect their
strength rating according to the GRADE approach (i.e. bal-
ance between desirable and undesirable effects, quality of
evidence, patient values and preferences, and resource alloca-
tion). All GDG members contributed towards drafting and/or
reviewing the narratives and information in the guideline
and Supporting Information documents. When there was
insufﬁcient evidence from the literature, informal consensus
was reached based on the experience of medical and patient
GDG members.
The summary of ﬁndings with forest plots (Appendix B),
tables Linking the Evidence To the Recommendations (LETR;
Appendix C), GRADE evidence proﬁles indicating the quality
of evidence (Appendix D), summary of included studies
(Appendix E), narrative ﬁndings for noncomparative studies
(Appendix F), PRISMA ﬂow diagram (Appendix G), list of
excluded studies (Appendix H) and AMSTAR 2 appraisal of
the included systematic reviews (Appendix I) are detailed in
the Supporting Information.
The strength of recommendation is expressed by the word-
ing and symbols shown in Table 1.
2.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established the following clinical questions pertinent
to the scope of the guideline.
Review question 1: investigation
Do tests, such as blood tests and the autologous serum skin
test, alter the management of urticaria?
Review question 2: treatment
What is the clinical effectiveness of any H1-antihistamine com-
pared with another for the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 3: treatment
Would changing from one H1-antihistamine to another lead
to beneﬁt in the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 4: treatment
Would adding an H2-antihistamine to an H1-antihistamine
lead to beneﬁt in the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 5: treatment
What is the effectiveness of leukotriene receptor antagonists in
the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 6: treatment
What are the effectiveness and safety of increasing doses of
H1-antihistamines?
Review question 7: treatment
Would adding other therapies to an H1-antihistamine lead to ben-
eﬁt in the treatment of urticaria, including sulfasalazine, dapsone,
thyroxine,
tricyclic
antidepressants,
hydroxychloroquine,
methotrexate, danazol, tranexamic acid, mycophenolate mofetil,
intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) and anticoagulants?
Review question 8: treatment
What is the effectiveness of taking systemic corticosteroids for
the treatment of urticaria?
Table 1 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbol
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar,
e.g. ‘use’, ‘provide’,
‘take’, ‘investigate’ etc.)
↑↑
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients would
choose the intervention whilst only a small proportion would not;
for clinicians, most of their patients would receive the intervention;
for policymakers, it would be a useful performance indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced; most
patients would choose the intervention but many would not;
clinicians would need to consider the pros and cons for the patient
in the context of the evidence; for policymakers it would be a poor
performance indicator where variability in practice is expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation against
the use of an intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most patients would
not choose the intervention whilst only a small proportion would; for
clinicians, most of their patients would not receive the intervention
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 399
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 3 ==========

Review question 9: treatment
What is the effectiveness of dietary exclusions or supplements
for the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 10: treatment
What is the effectiveness of Helicobacter pylori eradication for the
treatment of urticaria?
Review question 11: treatment
What is the effectiveness of avoiding nonsteroidal anti-
inﬂammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for the treatment of urticaria?
Review question 12: treatment
What is the effectiveness of ciclosporin for the treatment of
urticaria and are there any long-term beneﬁts?
Review question 13: treatment
What is the effectiveness of omalizumab for the treatment of
urticaria?
Review question 14: treatment
Is the response to treatment for inducible urticarias (e.g.
symptomatic dermographism, delayed pressure urticaria, cold
urticaria, cholinergic urticaria, vibratory angio-oedema, local-
ized heat urticaria) the same as for CSU?
Review question 15: treatment
Do any other speciﬁc interventions work for inducible urticar-
ias, such as antibiotics in cold urticaria, sulfasalazine in delayed
pressure urticaria, phototherapy in dermographism, plasma-
pheresis in solar urticaria and anticholinergics in cholinergic
urticaria?
Review question 16: treatment
Which H1-antihistamines can be used in pregnancy?
Review question 17: treatment
Which H1-antihistamines can be used during breastfeeding?
Review question 18: treatment
What are the key differences in the diagnosis and management
of paediatric compared with adult urticaria (if there are any)?
Review question 19: treatment
What is the clinical effectiveness of miscellaneous monothera-
pies compared with each other for the treatment of urticaria?
The GDG also established two sets of outcome measures of
importance to patients (for treatment and investigation),
ranked according to the GRADE methodology,5 by the patient
representatives (for the full review protocol see Appendix A in
the Supporting Information). In the investigation protocol, the
outcome is either ‘yes’ or ‘no’. The treatment outcomes
(Table 2) use a nine-point scale; outcomes ranked 9, 8 or 7
are critical for decision making; those ranked 6, 5 or 4 are
important but not critical for decision making; and those
ranked 3, 2 or 1 are the least important for decision making.
3. Summary of recommendations
The following recommendations and ratings were agreed
upon unanimously by members of the GDG and patient repre-
sentatives.
For further information on the wording used for recom-
mendations and strength of recommendation ratings see
Table 1. The evidence on which the recommendations are
based is featured and discussed in Appendices B–E (see Sup-
porting Information). The GDG is aware of the lack of high-
quality evidence for many of these recommendations, there-
fore, strong recommendations with an asterisk (*) are based
on available evidence, as well as informal consensus and spe-
cialist experience of medical and patient GDG members. Good
practice point (GPP) recommendations are derived from infor-
mal consensus.
The recommendations are based on the clinical classiﬁcation
of the disease (section 5.2) and refer to people of all ages.
However, note that for people aged < 12 years:
•
the recommendations are based on expert opinion as there
is very little published evidence
•
there are additional notes in section 9.1 and Table 3.
Licensing information, dosages and monitoring requirements
for speciﬁc drugs are not included. However, of note, apart
from H1-antihistamines, oral steroids and omalizumab, none of
the other treatment options discussed are licensed in the UK for
use in urticaria. Except where otherwise stated, we recommend
adherence to published guidelines, for example by the manu-
facturer, the BAD or, in the UK, the British National Formulary
(www.bnf.org). In particular, note the licensed dosages for
people aged < 14 years (also see Table 3).
The recommendations relate to chronic spontaneous and
inducible urticarias. Acute urticaria, angio-oedema without
weals (other than idiopathic, which is now classiﬁed as part
of CSU), hereditary angio-oedema and autoinﬂammatory dis-
eases are not covered.
For clarity, we have divided the management options into
sections (general treatment, ﬁrst-, second- and third-line
options). However, depending on disease severity, disease
ﬂuctuation, comorbidities and the national criteria for use of
drugs, the order and combinations of treatment may vary and
may change during the course of each person’s disease.
We note that, since submission of this article for publica-
tion, a new international guideline on the management of
urticaria has been published.6 Broadly, the recommendations
are similar, except that the international guideline favours
omalizumab over ciclosporin for CSU.
Table 2 Outcome measures and ranking
Disease control
9
Decrease in urticarial activity
9
Adverse effects
9
Quality of life
9
Time to clinical effect
7
Relapse
6
When to stop treatment
3
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
400 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 4 ==========

General management for people with all types of chronic
urticaria
The most important step is to take a detailed clinical history,
with
examination
supplemented
by
people’s
own
pho-
tographs. In most cases this will provide an accurate clinical
diagnosis
(section 5.2),
which
will
guide
management.
Disease pathogenesis may also be important in management
(section 5.3).
R1 (↑) Only consider baseline investigations if clinically indi-
cated (see section 6.0).
R2 (GPP) Consider using appropriate validated scoring sys-
tems to assess disease activity and impact, for example Derma-
tology Life Quality Index (DLQI), weekly Urticaria Activity
Score 7 (UAS7), Angioedema Activity Score (AAS) and/or
Urticaria Control Test (UCT).
R3 (GPP) Provide educational material or a patient informa-
tion leaﬂet on urticaria or angio-oedema (https://www.
skinhealthinfo.org.uk/a-z-conditions-treatments).
R4 (GPP) Offer access to support and treatment for anxiety,
depression and the psychosocial impact of the disease, where
appropriate. The psychological impact can be assessed using, for
example, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).
R5 (GPP) Consider topical antipruritic agents, such as a
menthol-containing emollient.
R6 (GPP) Advise avoidance of identiﬁed triggers or exacerbat-
ing factors, such as drugs, and in particular triggers for indu-
cible urticarias.
R7 (↑↑) Stop angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
in people with angio-oedema without weals.
General management for people with chronic spontaneous
urticaria
R8 (↑↑) Avoid NSAIDs in people whose CSU appears to be
exacerbated by this class of drugs.
R9 (↑) Consider switching NSAID treatment to a selective
cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, if tolerated and not contraindi-
cated, when there is a history of acute exacerbation of CSU
after NSAID intake for inﬂammation. However, evidence of
beneﬁt from switching low-dose aspirin when taken as an
antithrombotic to an alternative antiplatelet drug is lacking.
Refer to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence,7
British Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (BSACI)8
or European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology
(EAACI) guidance9 if reactivity to NSAIDs is suspected.
R10 (GPP) Do not advise dietary exclusion routinely. If, from
a detailed history, food appears to play a role, investigate
appropriately.
Θ1 There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend routine
screening for vitamin D deﬁciency.
Table 3 First-line antihistamines for chronic urticaria in children
Drug
1 month
to 1 year
1–2 years
2–5 years
6–11 years
12–17 years
Chlorphenamine
1 mg
twice
a day
x
x
x
x
2 mg/5 mL oral solution
Cetirizine
x
Unlicensed:
250 micrograms
per kg twice a day
(typically doses up to
25 mg twice a day)
25 mg
twice a day
5 mg twice a day
10 mg daily
5 mg/5 mL oral solution
10 mg tablets
Desloratadine
x
125 mg daily
125 mg daily
25 mg daily
5 mg daily
25 mg/5 mL oral solution
5 mg tablets
Loratadine
x
x
< 31 kg:
5 mg daily
< 31 kg:
5 mg daily
> 31 kg:
10 mg daily
10 mg daily
5 mg/5 mL oral solution
10 mg tablets
Fexofenadine
x
x
x
Unlicensed:
30 mg twice daily
180 mg daily
30 mg/120 mg/180 mg tablets
Table 3 summarizes the antihistamines commonly used in the UK. Chlorphenamine is a sedating antihistamine and thus daytime drowsiness
and reduced attention, visual memory and learning are very common. It also causes abnormal sleep at night with delayed and reduced REM
sleep. For these reasons, it should be used with caution, particularly over longer periods. It is not recommended for use beyond 1 year when
alternative low-sedating antihistamines are available. Cetirizine can cause drowsiness, especially when used above the licensed dose. Hence it
is to be used with caution in school-aged children. However, if the child has been started on cetirizine with beneﬁt, then this therapy can be
continued. Loratadine and desloratadine may be less effective than cetirizine, but are less likely to cause drowsiness. Like chlorphenamine,
they are metabolized in the liver, increasing the risks of drug accumulation and drug interactions. Fexofenadine is licensed for seasonal aller-
gic rhinitis from the age of 6 years, and for urticaria from the age of 12 years. It can be considered for unlicensed use for urticaria from the
age of 6 years. For all children with chronic urticaria who have an inadequate response to standard doses, the frequency of administration of
nonsedating antihistamines can be increased up to a maximum of four times a day.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 401
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 5 ==========

Θ2 There is insufﬁcient evidence to make a recommendation
on dietary supplementation.
R11 (↓↓) Do not offer routine screening for Helicobacter pylori.
First-line treatment options for people with chronic sponta-
neous urticaria
R12 (↑↑) Offer a second-generation H1-antihistamine, using a
regular daily licensed dose (Table 4).
R13 (↓↓) Do not offer ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines rou-
tinely, unless there is no alternative, due to concerns about their
short- and long-term effects on the central nervous system.
R14 (↑↑) Offer updosing (i.e. increasing the dose above the
licensed
dose)
of
a
single
second-generation
H1-
antihistamine, by up to fourfold the licensed dose, to people
whose symptoms are inadequately controlled by the standard
licensed dose, provided it is tolerated and there is no caution
or contraindication (see section 7.2 and Appendix C – LETR
narratives). Attempt stepwise dose reduction following com-
plete symptom control. There is no evidence to guide the
optimum duration of updosing or speed of dose reduction.
R15 (↓↓) Do not updose mizolastine (see section 7.2).
R16 (GPP) Consider switching from one second-generation
H1-antihistamine to another in people whose symptoms do
not respond adequately to, or who do not tolerate, the ﬁrst
drug at standard or increased doses.
Θ3 There is insufﬁcient evidence to make a recommendation
on using two different second-generation H1-antihistamines at
the same time.
R17 (↓↓) Do not updose ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines
(see R13).
R18 (↑) Consider montelukast, in addition to a second-
generation H1-antihistamine, in people whose symptoms are
inadequately controlled by standard and increased doses of
second-generation H1-antihistamines.
R19 (↑↑) Offer* progression of therapy, through ﬁrst-line
treatment options (see R12–R18) every 2–4 weeks (every
2 weeks in severe treatment-resistant disease).
Θ4 There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend routine addition
of H2-antihistamines to second-generation H1-antihistamines for
people whose symptoms are inadequately controlled by the latter.
However, they may be considered if urticaria is associated with
dyspepsia, although dyspepsia should be investigated appropri-
ately. See section 7.4.
R20 (↑) Consider oral prednisolone (e.g. 05 mg kg1) for
short, infrequent courses of a few days as rescue treatment to
control severe exacerbations, in addition to continued use of a
second-generation H1-antihistamine.
R21 (↓↓) Do not offer* long-term systemic corticosteroids
unless there is no other option. Use the lowest effective dose
for the shortest possible period.10
Second-line treatment options for people with chronic sponta-
neous urticaria
For people with CSU with an inadequate response to ﬁrst-line
treatment, the following additional investigations may be rele-
vant when considering the next treatment options.
R22 (↓↓) Do not offer autologous serum skin tests (ASSTs) or
autologous plasma skin tests (APSTs) routinely.
R23 (↑) Consider measuring total IgE levels: a high total IgE
level may indicate a higher probability of early disease respon-
siveness to omalizumab, whereas a normal total IgE level may
indicate disease responsiveness to ciclosporin (section 6 and
Appendix C – LETR narratives).
R24 (↑) If available, consider a basophil histamine release
assay (BHRA), although it is not yet subject to a national qual-
ity assurance scheme. A positive BHRA may indicate a higher
probability of disease responsiveness to ciclosporin and slower
or delayed response to omalizumab, whereas a negative BHRA
may indicate a higher probability of disease responsiveness to
omalizumab (section 6 and Appendix C – LETR narratives).
Note: total IgE levels (R23) and BHRAs (R24) are only
indicative and may not reﬂect actual clinical responsiveness in
all patients.
R25 (↑↑) Offer omalizumab, in addition to a second-
generation H1-antihistamine, to people whose symptoms are
inadequately controlled by ﬁrst-line options.
R26 (↑↑) Offer* ciclosporin for 3–6 months, in addition to a
second-generation H1-antihistamine, to people whose symp-
toms are inadequately controlled by ﬁrst-line options.
R27 (↑↑) Avoid long-term use of ciclosporin where possible;
if not, use at the lowest effective dose, interrupt treatment
Table 4 Examples of ﬁrst- and second-generation H1-antihistamines
Licensed oral dose for adultsa
(see Table 3 for children)
First generation
Chlorphenamine
4 mg every 4–6 h, maximum
24 mg per day (elderly maximum
12 mg per day)
Cyproheptadine
4 mg three times per day (maximum
32 mg per day)
Hydroxyzine
Initially 10–25 mg at night, maximum
25 mg three to four times per day
(elderly maximum 25 mg twice daily)
Promethazine
10–20 mg two to three times per day
Second generation
Acrivastine
8 mg three times a day
Cetirizine
10 mg once daily
Desloratadine
5 mg once daily
Fexofenadine
180 mg once daily
Loratadine
10 mg once daily
Levocetirizine
5 mg once daily
Mizolastine
10 mg once daily
aFrom the British National Formulary.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
402 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 6 ==========

periodically to conﬁrm continued requirement, and consider
alternative agents (see R25, R28 and Θ5).
Third-line treatment options for people with chronic sponta-
neous urticaria
R28 (↑) Consider the following options in people whose
symptoms are inadequately controlled by ﬁrst- and second-
line treatment options, or where the latter are contraindicated
or inappropriate (in alphabetical order):
•
azathioprine
•
dapsone
•
doxepin (but there are concerns about central nervous sys-
tem effects, as for ﬁrst-generation antihistamines)
•
hydroxychloroquine (particularly for urticaria occurring
with systemic lupus erythematosus)
•
IVIg
•
methotrexate
•
mycophenolate mofetil
•
narrowband ultraviolet (UV)B (typically a course of around
30 treatments, repeated after 12 months if necessary, but
not for continual treatment)
•
oral tacrolimus
•
sulfasalazine
•
tranexamic acid (only if predominantly angio-oedema).
Θ5 There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend the following
interventions (in alphabetical order):
•
colchicine
•
cyclophosphamide
•
dipyridamole
•
interleukin-1 antagonists (e.g. anakinra)
•
plasmapheresis
•
psychological interventions (although there is evidence that
psychological interventions such as cognitive behavioural
therapy, mindfulness and relaxation techniques are beneﬁ-
cial for general psychosocial wellbeing in patients with
skin diseases)
•
rituximab
•
thyroxine
•
tumour necrosis factor antagonists
•
warfarin.
Treatment options for inducible urticarias
There is much less evidence available than for CSU, but for
people with all types of inducible urticaria the following are
recommended
(based
mainly
on
small
case
series
and
anecdotal evidence).
First-line treatment options for people with all types of indu-
cible urticaria
R29 (↑↑) Offer* a second-generation H1-antihistamine, using
a regular daily licensed dose (Table 4).
R30 (↓↓) Do not offer* ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines rou-
tinely, unless there is no alternative, due to concerns about their
short- and long-term effects on the central nervous system.
R31 (↑↑) Offer* updosing of a single second-generation H1-
antihistamine by up to fourfold the licensed dose to people
whose symptoms are inadequately controlled by the standard
licensed dose, provided it is tolerated and there is no caution
or contraindication (section 7.2 and Appendix C – LETR nar-
ratives). Attempt stepwise dose reduction following complete
symptom control. There is no evidence to guide the optimum
duration of updosing or speed of dose reduction.
R32 (↓↓) Do not updose mizolastine (see section 7.2).
R33 (GPP) Consider switching from one second-generation
H1-antihistamine to another in people whose symptoms do
not respond adequately to, or who do not tolerate, the ﬁrst
drug at the standard or increased dose.
Θ6 There is insufﬁcient evidence to make a recommendation
on using two different second-generation H1-antihistamines at
the same time.
R34 (↓↓) Do not updose ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines
(see R30).
Θ7 There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend routine use
of montelukast, although there is some evidence to support its
use in some subtypes of inducible urticaria.
Second-line treatment options for people with all types of
inducible urticaria
R35 (↑) Consider omalizumab, in addition to a second-
generation H1-antihistamine, in people whose symptoms are
inadequately controlled by ﬁrst-line options, subject to licens-
ing and funding.
R36 (GPP) Offer self-injectable adrenaline, if appropriate, for
those at risk of anaphylaxis, for example in association with
cold or cholinergic urticaria.
Third-line treatment options for people with all types of indu-
cible urticaria
Consider
the
following
options,
in
addition
to
second-
generation H1-antihistamines, in people with speciﬁc types of
inducible urticaria, whose symptoms are inadequately respon-
sive to ﬁrst- and second-line treatment options, or where the
latter are contraindicated or inappropriate.
Cholinergic urticaria
R37 (GPP) Consider anticholinergic drugs (e.g. oxybutynin), or beta
blockers (e.g. propranolol), or danazol, or possibly phototherapy.
Cold urticaria
R38 (GPP) Consider ciclosporin.
Θ8 There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend routine use
of antibiotics (e.g. penicillin or tetracyclines).
R39 (GPP) Do not offer cold desensitization.
Delayed pressure urticaria
R40 (↑) Consider dapsone or sulfasalazine.
Solar urticaria
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 403
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 7 ==========

R41 (GPP) Offer advice about sun avoidance and sun protection.
R42 (↑) Consider UV prophylactic phototherapy using the
wavelength of light relevant to the individual person, only fol-
lowing photoinvestigation and obtaining advice from a derma-
tologist at a specialist photodermatology centre.
Θ9 There is limited evidence to recommend plasmapheresis or
IVIg for people with solar urticaria.
Symptomatic dermographism
R43 (↑) Consider narrowband UVB (typically a course of
around 30 treatments, repeated after 12 months, if necessary,
but not for continual treatment).
R44 (GPP) Consider psoralen plus UVA (similarly, not for
continual treatment).
R45 (GPP) Consider narrowband UVB for other forms of
inducible urticaria.
Considerations
Θ10 There is insufﬁcient evidence to make a recommendation
about the safety of use of antihistamines during pregnancy
and breastfeeding. However, in active disease and after
counselling the female patient with any type of urticaria,
where necessary, consider cetirizine or loratadine (see the
individual drug summary of product characteristics11 for
information on safety during pregnancy) and the discussion in
Appendix C (LETR narratives).
R46 (GPP) Refer to secondary care when:
•
there is diagnostic doubt
•
the urticaria is not adequately controlled by ﬁrst-line treat-
ment options
•
there are high levels of inﬂammatory markers
•
there are marked or persistent associated systemic symp-
toms, or if the person is systemically unwell
•
the urticaria is having a signiﬁcant impact on quality of life,
such as depression, anxiety, marked psychosocial impact,
reduced work/school attendance or sleep disturbance
•
the person has angio-oedema without weals, not controlled
by ﬁrst-line treatment options.
Future research recommendations
The following list outlines future research recommendations
(FRRs).
Figure 1 Patient management pathway for urticaria. For clarity we have divided management options into sections (general treatment, and ﬁrst-,
second- and third-line options). However, depending on disease severity, disease ﬂuctuation, comorbidities and national criteria for use of drugs,
the order and combinations of treatment may vary and change during each person’s disease. AAS, Angioedema Activity Score; ACE, angiotensin-
converting enzyme; BHRA, basophil histamine release assay; DLQI, Dermatology Life Quality Index; IVIg, intravenous immunoglobulin; NB-UVB,
narrowband ultraviolet B; PIL, patient information leaﬂet; PUVA, psoralen plus ultraviolet A; UAS7, Urticaria Activity Score summed over 7 days;
UCT, Urticaria Control Test.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
404 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 8 ==========

FRR1 Further investigation of the genetic predisposition and/
or mechanistic factors that drive the development of all types
of urticaria and/or angio-oedema, including the new theory
of IgE-mediated ‘autoallergy’ and characterization of the roles
of basophils, eosinophils and lymphocytes.
FRR2 Better characterization of, and comparisons between,
basophil-based assays as predictors of drug responses.
FRR3 Development of better biomarkers to predict responsive-
ness to anti-IgE and other therapies.
FRR4 Utilizing the results from FRR1–3 to address the possi-
bility of personalized therapy and whether new biological tar-
gets might offer new therapeutic options.
FRR5 Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the safety
and efﬁcacy of updosing one second-generation H1-antihistamine
compared with using two different second-generation H1-
antihistamines at the same time in people with CSU.
FRR6 RCTs evaluating the safety and efﬁcacy of omalizumab
in people with all subtypes of inducible urticaria.
FRR7 RCTs evaluating the safety and efﬁcacy of other treat-
ment options (as featured in the treatment algorithm) in peo-
ple with all subtypes of inducible urticaria.
FRR8 RCTs evaluating the safety and efﬁcacy of emerging
treatments for people with all types of urticaria, including the
new high-afﬁnity, humanized monoclonal anti-IgE antibody
ligelizumab, and potential new treatment options such as tyro-
sine kinase inhibitors, dupilumab, histamine H4 receptor
antagonists, C5a receptor antagonists and drugs targeting inhi-
bitory mast cell receptors (see section 7.8).
FRR9 Better characterization of the optimum duration of the
various treatment options available to people with all types of
urticaria.
FRR10 Investigations into disease incidence and prevalence, the
predictive value of laboratory investigations (such as total IgE levels
or basophil-based assays), and the safety and efﬁcacy of the various
current and potential future treatment options in children and
young people with urticaria and/or angio-oedema of all types.
4. Algorithm
The recommendations, discussions in the LETRs (Appendix C)
and consensus specialist experience were used to produce man-
agement pathways for adults with chronic urticaria – see Figure 1.
5. Background
5.1 Deﬁnition and introduction
Urticaria consists of transient weals, angio-oedema or both.
Weals are usually itchy, whereas the swellings of angio-oedema
are often not. Depending on the disease subtype, angio-oedema
or weals may be painful. Urticaria is usually divided into acute
and chronic forms, becoming chronic when daily or almost
daily weals continue for 6 weeks or more, although many
attacks of acute urticaria settle much more quickly. Some forms
of urticaria may be accompanied by systemic symptoms, such
as arthralgia, gastrointestinal disturbance, malaise, lethargy, or
wheeze and/or mucosal involvement. Acute urticaria may be a
presenting sign of anaphylaxis.
The reported lifetime prevalence rate of urticaria varies from
8% to 24%, with a lifetime prevalence rate of about 1–2% for
chronic urticaria.12–14 The point prevalence of chronic urti-
caria varies from 01% in North America to 14% in Asia.15
The disease is slightly more common in females, except in
young children.
People suffer greatly if they have any form of urticaria, and
chronic disease may have a signiﬁcant effect on quality of life.16,17
Even though the initial treatment for many types of urticaria
is similar, there are some important exceptions. Therefore,
accurate clinical categorization, based on a detailed history
and examination (section 5.2) and an understanding of dis-
ease pathogenesis (section 5.3), are essential to guide investi-
gation and management. Of note, different forms of urticaria
commonly occur together.
5.2 Clinical classiﬁcation of urticaria, including diseases
presenting with urticaria-like rashes (Table 5)
5.2.1 Spontaneous urticaria
No cause is identiﬁed in more than 50% of people with acute
urticaria (causes when identiﬁed include drugs, infections
including COVID-19, and type 1 hypersensitivity reactions)
and in many of those with CSU (see section 5.3.2. for patho-
genesis of CSU). Weals generally last for up to 24 h, but the
swellings of angio-oedema may last for up to 72 h.
5.2.2 Inducible urticarias
These urticarias are usually chronic. Weals are reproducibly
induced by the same physical stimulus. Weals usually appear
within a few minutes of the stimulus and last for < 2 h, the
exception being delayed pressure urticaria, where weals may
take 30 min to 12 h to develop, and then last for a few days.
The shape and size of the weals may aid diagnosis, for exam-
ple linear weals in dermographism, or papular weals sur-
rounded by a red ﬂare in cholinergic or aquagenic urticarias.
Some inducible urticarias present as a spectrum of symptoms
from pruritus, urticaria and angio-oedema to anaphylaxis.
Inducible urticarias can be conﬁrmed on provocation testing
(see section 6.0). Disease severity may be reduced through
the avoidance of triggers, although this can be difﬁcult and
disabling. Inducible urticarias tend to be underdiagnosed.
5.2.3 Angio-oedema without weals
Usually no cause is identiﬁed. However, it is important not
to miss uncommon cases of drug-induced angio-oedema
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 405
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 9 ==========

where the culprit drug must be withdrawn (especially ACE
inhibitors, where the angio-oedema may occur soon or
many years after drug initiation),18,19 or rare cases of C1
esterase inhibitor deﬁciency (see section 6.4). Both may
cause life-threatening airway swelling and neither respond
to the usual treatment for angio-oedema. Angio-oedema of
the gastrointestinal tract is common in C1 esterase inhibitor
deﬁciency.
5.2.4 Contact urticaria
Like inducible urticarias, this is characterized by a weal-and-
ﬂare response at the site of contact of a trigger, anaphylaxis
may occur, the onset is rapid (within minutes) and reactions
usually last for < 2 h. However, the disease is acute, not
chronic, and the trigger is not physical but instead may be
any of a large variety of substances, for example food, plants,
animals, fragrances or preservatives.
5.2.5 Urticarial vasculitis
Weals are usually of prolonged duration, may be painful
rather than itchy and sometimes leave residual bruising or
postinﬂammatory change. It can be difﬁcult to differentiate
urticarial vasculitis from delayed pressure urticaria. However,
in urticarial vasculitis, there are often marked systemic symp-
toms, there may be joint or renal involvement, an association
with other underlying diseases and high inﬂammatory mark-
ers. A skin biopsy is needed to conﬁrm the diagnosis (see sec-
tion 6.5).20
5.2.6 Autoinﬂammatory syndromes
Autoinﬂammatory syndromes presenting with urticaria-like
rashes include cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS)
(usually with onset in childhood, although late-onset acquired
disease is recognized) and Schnitzler syndrome (acquired with
adult onset). CAPS consists of three overlapping conditions:
familial cold autoinﬂammatory syndrome, Muckle–Wells syn-
drome and neonatal-onset multisystem inﬂammatory disorder.
These diseases are rare (for pathogenesis see section 5.3.3).
They differ in associated organ involvement, but are all usually
accompanied by fever, malaise and high levels of inﬂamma-
tory markers.21,22
5.3 Pathogenesis and aetiology
5.3.1 Allergic
Some cases of acute or episodic urticaria and some cases of con-
tact urticaria are due to mast cell degranulation caused by aller-
gens crosslinking antigen-speciﬁc IgE (type 1 hypersensitivity).
5.3.2 Autoimmune urticaria
Approximately 33% of people with CSU have functional,
histamine-releasing IgG autoantibodies. These either directly
crosslink high-afﬁnity IgE receptors (FceRI) or bind IgE.23
A new theory is emerging of type 1 autoimmunity or ‘au-
toallergy’, in which IgE antibodies are directed at an element
of self. Antigens may then crosslink IgE on mast cells or
basophils, causing degranulation. It has been observed that
there are fast and slow responders to treatment with omal-
izumab (an anti-IgE antibody). This has led to the proposal
that the rapid response may be due to omalizumab rapidly
binding free IgE autoantibodies against autoallergens, whilst
the slow responses may be due to the slower loss of mast
cell (or basophil) membrane-bound IgE and downregulation
of FceRI, thus reducing IgG-mediated activation.24 The func-
tional importance of IgE ‘autoallergic’ autoantibodies is under
investigation. Thus far, there is some evidence that IgE anti-
thyroid
peroxidase
antibodies
and
possibly
IgE
anti-
interleukin-24 antibodies may play a role in some patients
with CSU.25,26
Table 5 Clinical classiﬁcation of urticaria, including diseases
presenting with urticaria-like rashes4
Spontaneous urticaria
•
Acute
•
Chronic (6 weeks or more of continuous activity)
•
Episodic (acute intermittent or recurrent activity)
Inducible urticarias (reproducibly induced by the same
physical stimulus)
•
Aquagenic
•
Cholinergic
•
Cold contact
•
Delayed pressure
•
Exercise-induced anaphylaxis
•
Heat contact
•
Solar
•
Symptomatic dermographism
•
Vibratory
Angio-oedema without weals
•
Idiopathic (now classiﬁed as part of chronic
spontaneous urticaria)
•
Drug induced, e.g. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors
•
C1 esterase inhibitor deﬁciency, hereditary or
acquired, and hereditary angio-oedema with normal
C1 esterase inhibitor
Contact urticaria (contact with allergens or chemicals)
Diseases presenting with urticaria-like rashes
•
Urticarial vasculitis (deﬁned by vasculitis on skin biopsy)
•
Autoinﬂammatory syndromes
•
Hereditary, e.g. cryopyrin-associated periodic
syndrome (CAPS) (hereditary NLRP3 mutations)
•
Acquired, e.g. Schnitzler syndrome (paraprotein
and chronic urticarial rash), late-onset CAPS (acquired
somatic mosaicisms in the NLRP3 gene)
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
406 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 10 ==========

5.3.3 Autoinﬂammatory syndromes
These are characterized by dysregulation of innate immunity.
Persistent uncontrolled inﬂammation occurs in the absence of
triggers and is mediated by excessive cytokine production.
Most cases of CAPS are due to autosomal dominant or de novo
mutations in the NLRP3 gene, resulting in increased activity of the
NLRP-3 inﬂammasome and increased secretion of interleukin-
1b.27,28 Late-onset CAPS is now thought to be due to acquired
somatic (mosaic) mutations in NLRP3,29 but these have not been
identiﬁed in Schnitzler syndrome, even though the clinical presen-
tation is identical.30 Instead, Schnitzler syndrome is deﬁned by
the presence of a monoclonal gammopathy of unknown signiﬁ-
cance (MGUS), usually IgM, but sometimes IgG.30
5.4 Associations
Many people with CSU ﬁnd that nonspeciﬁc factors including
heat, alcohol, infections and stress exacerbate or trigger their
urticaria, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly under-
stood. Drugs may precipitate urticaria by various mechanisms
(Table 6).
An urticaria-like rash may also occur as a prodrome of bul-
lous pemphigoid or be a presenting feature of progesterone-
induced dermatosis. Urticaria, and particularly urticarial vas-
culitis, may occur with other diseases, such as systemic lupus
erythematosus.
There is an association between CSU and thyroid autoim-
munity.31 There is some evidence that Helicobacter pylori infec-
tion may be associated with an increased risk of CSU. There is
conﬂicting evidence as to whether eradiation of H. pylori
alleviates CSU, although identiﬁed H. pylori infection should, in
any case, be treated appropriately (see Appendix C – LETR
narratives for question 10). Given the association between
chronic urticaria and autoimmunity, including coeliac disease
in children32 and adults,33,34 clinical suspicion of coexisting
autoimmune diseases should remain high, but screening in
the absence of associated features is not suggested.
6. Appropriate investigations
The most important part of assessment is a thorough clinical
history and examination. This will usually lead to accurate
clinical classiﬁcation. In many cases, especially in acute and
mild chronic spontaneous or inducible urticarias, responsive
to H1-antihistamines, there is no need for further investiga-
tion.
Urticaria can have a signiﬁcant effect on people’s lives.
Therefore, assessments should be made as to the effect the dis-
ease is having on the person’s quality of life (e.g. using
DLQI); anxiety, depression or associated psychological issues
(e.g. using the HADS);35 sleep and attendance at school or
work. The activity of the disease should be measured (e.g.
using UAS7, AAS or UCT)36,37 before embarking on second-
line treatment options.38,39
6.1 Acute or episodic spontaneous urticaria
Skin prick tests and/or blood tests for allergen-speciﬁc IgE
may help to conﬁrm type 1 hypersensitivity as a cause, if sus-
pected. These tests are usually not helpful in chronic urticaria.
A full blood count (FBC) and inﬂammatory markers [C-
reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate
(ESR)] may be helpful in identifying infective causes.
6.2 Chronic spontaneous urticaria
A FBC may be useful to identify the minority of cases with
an underlying cause. An eosinophilia may suggest a drug-
induced rash, pre-bullous pemphigoid urticaria or a parasitic
infection. Leucocytosis may be present in infection and
sometimes in urticarial vasculitis or autoinﬂammatory dis-
ease, or, conversely, leucopenia may suggest systemic lupus
erythematosus.
Inﬂammatory markers (CRP and ESR) are often normal in
CSU, so elevated levels may prompt investigations for urticar-
ial vasculitis, autoinﬂammatory disease or unrelated causes.
Due to the association between CSU and thyroid autoimmu-
nity (section 5.4), testing for thyroid-stimulating hormone
(TSH) and thyroid antibodies may be useful.
Thus, performing a small number of tests (FBC, ESR, CRP,
TSH and thyroid antibodies) at presentation, may be of beneﬁt
in CSU.
In treatment-resistant cases, total IgE levels and tests for IgG
histamine-releasing autoantibodies (if available) may help to
inform the choice between the second-line treatment agents
omalizumab (or in the future perhaps new treatments such as
Table 6 Pathogenesis and aetiology of urticaria4
Idiopathic
Immunological
Adaptive immune system
•
Allergic (mediated by IgE – abnormal response to
external antigen)
•
Autoimmune (mediated by IgG, or possibly IgE
‘autoallergy’) – (abnormal response to self-antigen)
•
Immune complex (urticarial vasculitis, or acute
urticaria due to blood products)
Innate immune system
•
Autoinﬂammatory (mediated by cytokines)
Other
•
Kallikrein–kinin system mediated (acquired or hereditary
C1 esterase inhibitor deﬁciency or hereditary
angio-oedema with normal C1 esterase inhibitor)
•
Direct mast-cell-releasing agents (e.g. opiates,
radiocontrast media)
•
Leukotriene formation (e.g. aspirin, nonsteroidal
anti-inﬂammatory drugs)
•
Inhibition of kinin breakdown (e.g.
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors)
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 407
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 11 ==========

the monoclonal anti-IgE antibody ligelizumab) and ciclosporin
(see R23 and R24).40–42 Functional tests may also be useful in
understanding disease pathogenesis and in providing an expla-
nation to the person with urticaria.
Total IgE assays are widely available, low cost and well
characterized. The BHRA is the most established test for
functional autoantibodies; however, it is complex to perform.
Some laboratories may prefer measuring basophil activation
by other validated means. No functional test is well charac-
terized or has been subject to national quality assurance
schemes. Such tests are not always readily accessible or avail-
able. Further research is needed to determine the compara-
tive
utility
of
functional
tests
in
predicting
treatment
responses in CSU. For more details see Appendix C (LETR
narratives).
6.3 Inducible urticarias
These should be conﬁrmed by history and appropriate provo-
cation tests.43
In cold contact urticaria, cryoglobulins may be measured,
although they are rarely present and, if so, are usually associ-
ated with infection or haematological disease. If they are mea-
sured,
scrupulous
attention
to
temperature-controlled
sampling, transport and processing is required (blood must be
kept at 37°C). If weals follow the cold trigger after a delay of
a few hours, are associated with systemic symptoms or start in
early childhood, and/or there is a family history, investiga-
tions should be undertaken for familial cold autoinﬂammatory
syndrome (section 6.6).
In solar urticaria, antinuclear antibodies and porphyrins
should be checked. If the diagnosis is unclear, or if the disease
is poorly responsive to treatment, referral to a specialist centre
for an opinion and, if appropriate, phototesting may help.
In aquagenic pruritus, an annual FBC is recommended, as
this condition may be associated with polycythaemia rubra
vera and other haematological disorders.
6.4 Angio-oedema without weals
C1 esterase inhibitor deﬁciency is characterized by low C4
levels, both between and during attacks.44 If C4 levels are
low, C1 esterase inhibitor level and function should then be
checked. In about 85% of cases of hereditary angio-oedema
both are reduced (type I), but in the remainder only func-
tional activity is reduced (type II). Reduced C1q levels are
characteristic of (but not speciﬁc for) acquired C1 esterase
inhibitor deﬁciency. All forms of C1 esterase inhibitor deﬁ-
ciency should be referred to immunology services for further
investigation and management, in line with national and inter-
national consensus guidelines.
6.5 Urticarial vasculitis
A skin biopsy showing a leucocytoclastic vasculitis is required
to conﬁrm the diagnosis, but the histological changes are
often subtle. Possible histological features include fragmenta-
tion
of
leucocytes
with
nuclear
debris
(leucocytoclasia),
endothelial cell swelling or damage, red cell extravasation and
rarely ﬁbrin deposition.
Inﬂammatory markers (CRP, ESR) are often raised. A full
vasculitis screen should be checked to investigate for underly-
ing causes, such as connective tissue disease or infection. Low
C3 and C4, and positive anti-C1q antibodies may indicate
hypocomplementaemic urticarial vasculitis, a more severe dis-
ease with a greater potential for associated systemic disease,
particularly systemic lupus erythematosus, and internal organ
involvement.20,45
6.6 Autoinﬂammatory syndromes
Inﬂammatory markers (CRP and ESR) are usually elevated, as
is
serum
amyloid
A,
which
should
be
measured.
Immunoglobulins and serum protein electrophoresis should
be checked to investigate for Schnitzler syndrome in late-onset
disease, although a low-level IgM paraprotein can be difﬁcult
to detect. Genetic tests should be arranged if CAPS is sus-
pected. In England, patients should be referred to departments
approved by NHS England for investigation and treatment.
7. Interventions
Largely, these are as listed in the recommendations (sec-
tion 3.0). However, a few important points are discussed
below. Details of the supporting evidence for each recommen-
dation can be found in Appendix C (LETR narratives).
7.1 The effectiveness of H1-antihistamines compared with
each other
No ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamine was found to stand out
as being more effective than others in the Cochrane review.46
However, the GDG generally considered loratadine and deslo-
ratadine to be slightly less effective, a position supported by
in vivo suppression of weal-and-ﬂare responses by different H1-
antihistamines.47,48 See Appendix C, question 2/3 for further
information, including a network meta-analysis published in
2021 that graded antihistamines in order of efﬁcacy and
acceptability, but acknowledged that this was based on low-
quality evidence.49
7.2 Updosing of H1-antihistamines
If
licensed
doses
of
H1-antihistamines
show
inadequate
response, the GDG agreed that evidence on efﬁcacy supported
the updosing of second-generation H1-antihistamines for CSU,
where tolerated and in the absence of contraindications. Efﬁ-
cacy gains were particularly evident for pruritus and quality of
life, but the need for further research was noted.50 The GDG
recommended
considering
a
switch
from
one
second-
generation H1-antihistamine to another in people with CSU
who do not respond adequately to the ﬁrst drug, or if side-
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
408 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 12 ==========

effects develop. The GDG does not recommend routinely
offering combinations of two different second-generation H1-
antihistamines at the same time to people with CSU, although
it was noted that some people may beneﬁt.51 The safety of
giving two H1-antihistamines at lower dosages has not been
investigated and there is no published evidence on using such
combination treatment. The GDG does not recommend updos-
ing ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines in people with CSU.
In general, evidence supported the good safety proﬁle of up
to fourfold updosing of second-generation H1-antihistamines,
where tolerated, and in the absence of contraindications.
However, the following should be considered before proceed-
ing. Firstly, some studies have suggested that a proportion of
people may develop increased side-effects, such as sedation,
on updosing second-generation H1-antihistamines.52,53 The
possibility of sedation after updosing second-generation H1-
antihistamines should be discussed with people with urticaria.
Secondly, the summary of product characteristics on www.
medicines.org.uk provides speciﬁc information on the cautions
and contraindications of individual antihistamines and these
should be considered before updosing. These include closed-
angle glaucoma, prostatism, interactions with other drugs
(e.g. cytochrome P450 modulators, drugs with associated
sedation), foods (e.g. grapefruit) and alcohol, renal and liver
impairment,
epilepsy,
elderly
people
and
heart
disease.
Thirdly, the potential to prolong the electrocardiogram QTc
interval should also be considered for all H1-antihistamines.54
For example, among other contraindications, mizolastine is
contraindicated in people with known or suspected QT pro-
longation or with electrolyte imbalance, in particular hypoka-
laemia
or
hypomagnesaemia;
in
clinically
signiﬁcant
bradycardia; and where used with medicinal products known
to prolong the QT interval, such as class I and III antiarrhyth-
mics. The GDG does not recommend updosing mizolastine.
The GDG noted that most studies on updosing have shown
signiﬁcant heterogeneity in terms of study design, doses,
speciﬁc antihistamines and responses, and recommended that
large-scale, high-quality studies be undertaken.
7.3 Subsets of urticaria in which montelukast may be of
beneﬁt
There is published evidence that montelukast in combination
with a second-generation H1-antihistamine may be more effec-
tive than taking a second-generation H1-antihistamine alone for
people with CSU.55 Much less data are available for inducible
urticarias, although there is some evidence for efﬁcacy in
delayed pressure urticaria,56 and several members of the GDG
try montelukast in people with various inducible urticarias.
There may also be speciﬁc circumstances when this combi-
nation may be beneﬁcial, such as when urticaria is exacerbated
by salicylates, or where angio-oedema is the predominant
symptom.57,58
Montelukast can be prescribed in primary care without
monitoring of blood tests, but a recent Medicines and Health-
care products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) warning reminds
prescribers of the neuropsychiatric side-effects that may occur
in a minority of people, particularly in children. People given
montelukast should be counselled so as to be vigilant for these
symptoms.
7.4 H2-antihistamines
There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend routine addition of
H2-antihistamines to second-generation H1-antihistamines for
people with chronic urticaria whose symptoms are inadequately
controlled by the latter alone.59 However, some people may
beneﬁt, especially if urticaria is associated with dyspepsia. How-
ever, dyspepsia should be investigated appropriately. If an H2-
antihistamine is used, famotidine (at the dose licensed for dys-
pepsia) is preferable to cimetidine, because the latter has a
higher risk of adverse effects and interacts with cytochrome
p450 modulators. Indeed, cimetidine interacts with some ﬁrst-
generation H1-antihistamines, raising their plasma concentra-
tion, which may explain some of the beneﬁcial effects of combi-
nation therapy demonstrated many years ago.60 However, there
are very few data on the use of famotidine in urticaria.
It is of note that we no longer recommend ranitidine as it
has been withdrawn by the manufacturers due to possible
contamination with a known carcinogen.61
7.5 Oral corticosteroids for inducible urticarias
There are very few published data on the use of systemic cor-
ticosteroids in people with inducible urticarias. As for CSU, a
short course of oral prednisolone may be considered for sev-
ere exacerbations, although it may not be as effective.62
7.6 Avoidance of triggers in inducible urticarias
Avoidance of triggers may be helpful, especially where disease
control is difﬁcult. Avoidance can be disabling. However,
where there is a risk of anaphylaxis, people should be warned
to avoid particularly dangerous situations. For example, in
cold urticaria, swimming in cold water (especially in the sea)
or rock climbing could lead to a drop in core temperature or
cooling of much of the body surface, resulting in anaphylaxis,
potentially with fatal outcome.
7.7 Autoinﬂammatory syndromes
These usually respond very rapidly (usually within 24 h) to
agents that inhibit the actions of interleukin-1, such as the
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist anakinra. Early treatment
may prevent (and possibly reverse) disease complications. A
therapeutic trial can be used as a diagnostic tool.63
7.8 Potential new treatments for chronic spontaneous
urticaria
A number of drugs are under investigation and/or in clinical
trials
for
CSU.64
Biosimilars
for
omalizumab
are
being
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 409
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 13 ==========

developed. Ligelizumab, a new anti-IgE monoclonal antibody,
may be more efﬁcacious and need less frequent administration
than omalizumab. Dupilumab (an anti-interleukin-4 receptor
antibody that inhibits the interleukin-4 and interleukin-13
pathways), monoclonal antibodies targeting the interleukin-5
pathway
(such
as
mepolizumab,
reslizumab
and
benral-
izumab) and Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitors are all being
investigated
for
CSU.
Other
potential
therapeutic
targets
include siglec-8 (an inhibitory receptor on mast cells, baso-
phils and eosinophils), prostaglandin receptors, the H4 recep-
tor and the C5a receptor.
8. Prognosis
Approximately 45% of people with CSU respond to H1-
antihistamines at licensed doses,65 and reports estimate that up
to two-thirds of the residual may respond to updosing.50 About
two-thirds of those unresponsive to H1-antihistamines respond
to omalizumab,66 and a similar, probably different but overlap-
ping, proportion to ciclosporin, although there is less evidence
for the latter.67 Of note, the response rates given include partial
and complete responses, so full disease suppression may not be
achieved in many people with CSU with these treatments alone.
Approximately 50% of people with CSU go into remission
after 6 months to 5 years (longer if there is angio-oedema),
but about 20% still have active disease after 10 years, and
10% after 20 years.65,68
In some people, urticaria can be very long lasting, difﬁcult
to treat and disabling. This is perhaps particularly so for peo-
ple with severe inducible urticarias, where there are fewer
options and less data to support treatment.
9. Considerations
9.1 Children and young people
In most aspects, urticaria and angio-oedema are very similar
in children and adolescents compared with adults, including
treatment approaches. About 75% of children with chronic
urticaria have CSU, with most others having inducible urticar-
ias,69 and both can coexist. However, there are a few impor-
tant management aspects to consider when seeing children
and adolescents.
1.
Consider an underlying autoinﬂammatory disease if a
child is systemically unwell and/or has raised inﬂamma-
tory markers. In England, children who are thought to
have autoinﬂammatory disease should be referred to a
rheumatologist with a specialist interest in autoinﬂamma-
tory syndromes.
2.
A parasitic infection may be responsible for chronic urti-
caria. At-risk children should be screened and, if parasitic
infection is present, treated accordingly. Indicators of a
potential parasitic infection include eosinophilia, gas-
trointestinal symptoms and recent foreign travel.
3. The same proportion of children and young people with
CSU have a positive BHRA, but there is a lack of evidence
that
this
inﬂuences
treatment
response
or
disease
remission.
4. H1-antihistamines currently authorized for use in children
aged 2–11 years (Table 3) include cetirizine, levoceti-
rizine, loratadine and rupatadine.70 When needed, these
antihistamines can also be used below age 2 years, despite
the licensing age cutoff, given their overall good safety
proﬁle. Desloratadine is licensed from age 1 year and
chlorphenamine from age 1 month (the latter is licensed
in the UK according to the British National Formulary).
5. Second-generation
H1-antihistamines
can
be
updosed
with care (section 7.2) as for adults, taking into consid-
eration cautions and contraindications, and proportionate
to the manufacturers’ recommendations for age and
weight (Table 3).71
6. As
for
adults,
do
not
offer
ﬁrst-generation
H1-
antihistamines routinely, unless there is no alternative,
due to concerns about their short- and long-term effects
on the central nervous system.
7. Children may be more likely than adults to have neu-
ropsychiatric side-effects from montelukast, including
dysphemia (described as ‘stuttering’), nightmares or
night terrors, aggression and behavioural changes.
8. Although not licensed in the UK, omalizumab has been suc-
cessfully used in children below the age of 12 years with
CSU and inducible urticarias, typically at the lower dose of
150 mg every 4 weeks and down to age 6 years, but very
occasionally at even younger ages.72 The same applies to
ciclosporin (typically 3–4 mg kg1 per day).73–75
9. As in adults, self-injectable adrenaline should be considered
in children with inducible urticarias where there is a risk of
anaphylaxis following a signiﬁcant trigger (those with cold
urticaria must not immerse themselves in cold water), espe-
cially in children with a history of systemic symptoms.
10.
There is very little published evidence for treatment
interventions in children under 12 years, or for pho-
totherapy for children of any age, with any subtype of
urticaria.
9.2 Pregnancy and breastfeeding
There is insufﬁcient evidence to make a recommendation
about the safety of using most drugs during pregnancy and
breastfeeding. Refer to the manufacturer’s summary of pro-
duct characteristics,11 or other published guidelines.
However, in active disease and after counselling the person
with any type of urticaria, where necessary consider cetirizine
or loratadine (see Appendix C – LETR narratives – for available
information on antihistamines).
Similarly, to date there is no evidence of harm to the fetus
or mother from the use of omalizumab in pregnancy, or
whilst breastfeeding, although again the person should be
fully informed of the lack of available evidence.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
410 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 14 ==========

10. Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive people with chronic urticaria, is
there clear documentation of:
1.
The clinical subtype(s) of urticaria.
2.
Provision of educational material.
3.
Advice on avoidance of triggers.
4.
Assessment of disease impact, for example DLQI (at a min-
imum, prior to commencement of second-line agents).
5.
Assessment of disease severity, for example UAS7, AAS
or UCT (at a minimum, prior to commencement of
second-line agents).
6.
Use of a second-generation H1-antihistamine at the
licensed dosage, as a ﬁrst-line agent for all types of
chronic urticaria.
7.
Use of a second-generation H1-antihistamine above the
manufacturer’s recommended dose for all types of urti-
caria, if a licensed dose fails to adequately control symp-
toms, unless there are contraindications.
8.
The addition of montelukast to a second-generation H1-
antihistamine, in people with CSU whose symptoms are
not adequately responsive to H1-antihistamines alone.
9.
The addition of omalizumab (or ciclosporin in CSU) to a
second-generation H1-antihistamine, if symptoms are not
adequately controlled by ﬁrst-line agents.
10.
Use of oral corticosteroids limited to short courses, if
applicable.
11
Avoidance of ﬁrst-generation H1-antihistamines as ﬁrst-
line treatment.
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single person and
allow
benchmarking
between
different
units.
However,
departments unable to achieve this recommendation may
choose to audit all cases seen in the preceding 12 months. See
Appendix L (Supporting Information) for the set of audit stan-
dards, data items and data collection methodology.
11. Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The draft document and Supporting Information were made
available to the BAD membership, British Dermatological
Nursing Group (BDNG), Primary Care Dermatological Society
(PCDS), British Society for Allergy & Clinical Immunology
(BSACI) and the Royal College of Pathologists’ Immunology
Specialist Advisory Committee for comments, which were
actively considered by the GDG. Following further review, the
ﬁnalized version was sent for peer review by the Clinical Stan-
dards Unit of the BAD, made up of the T&G subcommittee,
prior to submission for publication.
12. Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and is
based on the best data available when the document was pre-
pared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may be
necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the results of
future studies may require some of the recommendations
herein to be changed. Failure to adhere to these guidelines
should not necessarily be considered negligent, nor should
adherence to these recommendations constitute a defence
against a claim of negligence. Limiting the review to English-
language references was a pragmatic decision, but the authors
recognize this may exclude some important information pub-
lished in other languages.
13. Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2026; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgements
We are very grateful to Dr Frances Humphreys (formerly South
Warwickshire NHS Foundation Trust), who led this guideline
updating project initially; both of the patient representatives
including Ms Linda Campbell for their input in formulating the
clinical questions, ranking of the outcomes, reviewing the evi-
dence and formulating the recommendations; and all those
who commented on the draft during the consultation period.
References
1 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Updated guidance for
writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline:
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J Dermatol 2017;
176:44–51.
2 Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
3 GRADEpro Guideline Development Tool. Hamilton, OH, Canada: McMaster
University (developed by Evidence Prime, Inc.), 2020.
4 Grattan CE, Humphreys F. Guidelines for evaluation and management
of urticaria in adults and children. Br J Dermatol 2007; 157:1116–23.
5 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging consen-
sus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommenda-
tions. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
6 Zuberbier T, Abdul Latiff AH, Abuzakouk M et al. The international
EAACI/GA2LEN/EuroGuiDerm/APAAACI guideline for the deﬁni-
tion, classiﬁcation, diagnosis and management of urticaria. Allergy
2022. https://doi.org/10.1111/all.15090.
7 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. NSAIDs – pre-
scribing issues. Available at: https://cks.nice.org.uk/topics/nsaids-
prescribing-issues (last accessed 15 November 2021).
8 British Society for Allergy & Clinical Immunology (BSACI). Non-
steroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs (NSAIDS). Available at: https://
www.bsaci.org/professional-resources/allergy-management/drug-
allergy/non-steroidal-anti-inﬂammatory-drugs-nsaids (last accessed
15 November 2021).
9 Kowalski ML, Asero R, Bavbek S et al. Classiﬁcation and practical
approach to the diagnosis and management of hypersensitivity to
nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs. Allergy 2013; 68:1219–32.
10 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Corticosteroids –
oral. Available at: https://cks.nice.org.uk/topics/corticosteroids-
oral (last accessed 15 November 2021).
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 411
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 15 ==========

11 emc.
Latest
medicine
updates.
Available
at:
https://www.
medicines.org.uk/emc/latest-medicines-updates (last accessed 15
November 2021).
12 Sanchez J, Amaya E, Acevedo A et al. Prevalence of inducible urti-
caria in patients with chronic spontaneous urticaria: associated risk
factors. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2017; 5:464–70.
13 Zuberbier T, Balke M, Worm M et al. Epidemiology of urticaria: a
representative cross-sectional population survey. Clin Exp Dermatol
2010; 35:869–73.
14 Kim BR, Yang S, Choi JW et al. Epidemiology and comorbidities
of
patients
with
chronic
urticaria
in
Korea:
a
nationwide
population-based study. J Dermatol 2018; 45:10–16.
15 Fricke J, Avila G, Keller T et al. Prevalence of chronic urticaria in
children and adults across the globe: systematic review with meta-
analysis. Allergy 2020; 75:423–32.
16 Maurer M, Abuzakouk M, Berard F et al. The burden of chronic
spontaneous urticaria is substantial: real-world evidence from
ASSURE-CSU. Allergy 2017; 72:2005–16.
17 Guillet G, Becherel P-A, Pralong P et al. The burden of chronic
urticaria: French baseline data from the international real-life
AWARE study. Eur J Dermatol 2019; 29:49–54.
18 Bezalel S, Mahlab-Guri K, Asher I et al. Angiotensin-converting enzyme
inhibitor-induced angioedema. Am J Med 2015; 128:120–5.
19 Stone C, Brown NJ. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and
other
drug-associated
angioedema.
Immunol
Allergy
Clin
2017;
37:483–95.
20 Mehregan
DR,
Hall
MJ,
Gibson
LE.
Urticarial
vasculitis:
a
histopathologic and clinical review of 72 cases. J Am Acad Dermatol
1992; 26:441–8.
21 Gusdorf L, Asli B, Barbarot S et al. Schnitzler syndrome: validation
and applicability of diagnostic criteria in real-life patients. Allergy
2017; 72:177–82.
22 Kuemmerle-Deschner JB, Ozen S, Tyrrell PN et al. Diagnostic crite-
ria for cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS). Ann Rheum
Dis 2017; 76:942–7.
23 Niimi N, Francis DM, Kermani F et al. Dermal mast cell activation
by autoantibodies against the high afﬁnity IgE receptor in chronic
urticaria. J Invest Dermatol 1996; 106:1001–6.
24 Kolkhir P, Church MK, Weller K et al. Autoimmune chronic spon-
taneous urticaria: what we know and what we do not know. J
Allergy Clin Immunol 2017; 139:1772–81.
25 Sanchez J, Sanchez A, Cardona R. Causal relationship between
anti-TPO IgE and chronic urticaria by in vitro and in vivo tests. Allergy
Asthma Immunol Res 2019; 11:29–42.
26 Schmetzer O, Lakin E, Topal FA et al. IL-24 is a common and
speciﬁc autoantigen of IgE in patients with chronic spontaneous
urticaria. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2018; 142:876–82.
27 Hoffman HM, Mueller JL, Broide DH et al. Mutation of a new gene
encoding a putative pyrin-like protein causes familial cold autoin-
ﬂammatory syndrome and Muckle-Wells syndrome. Nat Genet
2001; 29:301–5.
28 Aksentijevich I, Nowak M, Mallah M et al. De novo CIAS1 mutations,
cytokine activation, and evidence for genetic heterogeneity in patients
with neonatal-onset multisystem inﬂammatory disease (NOMID): a
new member of the expanding family of pyrin-associated autoinﬂam-
matory diseases. Arthritis Rheum 2002; 46:3340–8.
29 Rowczenio DM, Gomes SM, Arostegui JI et al. Late-onset cryopyrin-
associated periodic syndromes caused by somatic NLRP3 mosaicism
– UK single center experience. Front Immunol 2017; 8:1410.
30 Rowczenio DM, Pathak S, Arostegui JI et al. Molecular genetic
investigation,
clinical
features,
and
response
to
treatment
in 21 patients with Schnitzler syndrome. Blood 2018; 131:
974–81.
31 Leznoff A, Sussman GL. Syndrome of idiopathic chronic urticaria
and angioedema with thyroid autoimmunity: a study of 90
patients. J Allergy Clin Immunol 1989; 84:66–71.
32 Caminiti L, Passalacqua G, Magazzu G et al. Chronic urticaria and
associated coeliac disease in children: a case–control study. Pediatr
Allergy Immunol Pulmonol 2005; 16:428–32.
33 Conﬁno-Cohen R, Chodick G, Shalev V et al. Chronic urticaria and
autoimmunity: associations found in a large population study. J
Allergy Clin Immunol 2012; 129:1307–13.
34 Lebwohl B, S€oderling J, Roelstraete B et al. Risk of skin disorders
in patients with celiac disease: a population-based cohort study. J
Am Acad Dermatol 2022; 85:1456–64.
35 Zigmond AS, Snaith RP. The hospital anxiety and depression scale.
Acta Psychiatr Scand 1983; 67:361–70.
36 Weller K, Grofﬁk A, Church MK et al. Development and validation
of the Urticaria Control Test: a patient-reported outcome instru-
ment for assessing urticaria control. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2014;
133:1365–72.
37 Weller K, Grofﬁk A, Magerl M et al. Development, validation, and
initial results of the Angioedema Activity Score. Allergy 2013;
68:1185–92.
38 Jauregui I, Ortiz de Frutos F, Ferrer M et al. Assessment of severity
and quality of life in chronic urticaria. J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol
2014; 24:80–6.
39 Młynek A, Zalewska-Janowska A, Martus P et al. How to assess dis-
ease activity in patients with chronic urticaria? Allergy 2008;
63:777–80.
40 Ertas R, Ozyurt K, Atasoy M et al. The clinical response to omal-
izumab in chronic spontaneous urticaria patients is linked to and
predicted by IgE levels and their change. Allergy 2018; 73:
705–12.
41 Iqbal K, Bhargava K, Skov PS et al. A positive serum basophil his-
tamine release assay is a marker for ciclosporin-responsiveness in
patients with chronic spontaneous urticaria. Clin Transl Allergy 2012;
2:19.
42 Maurer M, Gimenez-Arnau AM, Sussman G et al. Ligelizumab for
chronic spontaneous urticaria. N Engl J Med 2019; 381:1321–32.
43 Magerl M, Altrichter S, Borzova E et al. The deﬁnition, diagnostic
testing, and management of chronic inducible urticarias – the
EAACI/GA2LEN/EDF/UNEV
consensus
recommendations
2016
update and revision. Allergy 2016; 71:780–802.
44 Gompels M, Lock R, Abinun M et al. C1 inhibitor deﬁciency: con-
sensus document. Clin Exp Immunol 2005; 139:379–94.
45 Sj€owall C, Mandl T, Skattum L et al. Epidemiology of hypocomple-
mentaemic urticarial vasculitis (anti-C1q vasculitis). Rheumatology
2018; 57:1400–7.
46 Sharma M, Bennett C, Cohen SN, Carter B. H1-antihistamines for
chronic spontaneous urticaria. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; 2014:
CD006137.
47 Purohit A, Melac M, Pauli G et al. Twenty-four-hour activity and
consistency of activity of levocetirizine and desloratadine in the
skin. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2003; 56:388–94.
48 Lever L, Hill S, Marks R et al. Effects of cetirizine, loratadine and
terfenadine on histamine weal and ﬂare reactions. Skin Pharmacol
Physiol 1992; 5:29–33.
49 Phinyo P, Koompawichit P, Nochaiwong S et al. Comparative efﬁ-
cacy and acceptability of licensed dose second-generation antihis-
tamines in chronic spontaneous urticaria: a network meta-analysis.
J Allergy Clin Immunol 2021; 9:956–70.
50 Guillen-Aguinaga S, Jauregui Presa I, Aguinaga-Ontoso E et al.
Updosing nonsedating antihistamines in patients with chronic
spontaneous urticaria: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J
Dermatol 2016; 175:1153–65.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
412 BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 16 ==========

51 Maurer M, Church M, Goncalo M et al. Management and treatment
of chronic urticaria (CU). J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2015; 29:16–32.
52 Casale TB, Blaiss MS, Gelfand E et al. First do no harm: managing
antihistamine impairment in patients with allergic rhinitis. J Allergy
Clin Immunol 2003; 111:S835–42.
53 Weller K, Ziege C, Staubach P et al. H1-antihistamine up-dosing in
chronic spontaneous urticaria: patients’ perspective of effectiveness
and side effects – a retrospective survey study. PLOS ONE 2011; 6:
e23931.
54 Cataldi M, Maurer M, Taglialatela M et al. Cardiac safety of second-
generation H1-antihistamines when updosed in chronic sponta-
neous urticaria. Clin Exp Allergy 2019; 49:1615–23.
55 de Silva NL, Damayanthi H, Rajapakse AC et al. Leukotriene recep-
tor antagonists for chronic urticaria: a systematic review. Allergy
Asthma Clin Immunol 2014; 10:24.
56 Nettis E, Colanardi M, Soccio A et al. Desloratadine in combination
with montelukast suppresses the dermographometer challenge test
papule, and is effective in the treatment of delayed pressure urti-
caria: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Br J
Dermatol 2006; 155:1279–82.
57 Pacor M, Di Lorenzo G, Corrocher R. Efﬁcacy of leukotriene receptor
antagonist in chronic urticaria. A double-blind, placebo-controlled
comparison of treatment with montelukast and cetirizine in patients
with chronic urticaria with intolerance to food additive and/or
acetylsalicylic acid. Clin Exp Allergy 2001; 31:1607–14.
58 Akenroye AT, McEwan C, Saini SS. Montelukast reduces symptom
severity and frequency in patients with angioedema-predominant
chronic spontaneous urticaria. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2018; 6:1403–5.
59 Fedorowicz Z, van Zuuren EJ, Hu N. Histamine H2-receptor
antagonists for urticaria. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012; 2012:
CD008596.
60 Bleehen S, Thomas S, Greaves M et al. Cimetidine and chlorpheni-
ramine in the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria: a multi-centre
randomized double-blind study. Br J Dermatol 1987; 117:81–8.
61 GOV.UK. Ranitidine – MHRA drug alert issued for Teva UK recall.
Available at: https://www.gov.uk/government/news/ranitidine-
mhra-drug-alert-issued-for-teva-uk-recall (last accessed 15 Novem-
ber 2021).
62 Zuberbier T, Aberer W, Asero R et al. The EAACI/GA2LEN/EDF/
WAO guideline for the deﬁnition, classiﬁcation, diagnosis and
management of urticaria. Allergy 2018; 73:1393–414.
63 Kone-Paut
I,
Piram
M.
Targeting
interleukin-1b
in
CAPS
(cryopyrin-associated periodic) syndromes: what did we learn?
Autoimmun Rev 2012; 12:77–80.
64 Kolkhir P, Altrichter S, Munoz M et al. New treatments for chronic
urticaria. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 2020; 124:2–12.
65 Humphreys F, Hunter JA. The characteristics of urticaria in 390
patients. Br J Dermatol 1998; 138:635–8.
66 Tharp MD, Bernstein JA, Kavati A et al. Beneﬁts and harms of oma-
lizumab treatment in adolescent and adult patients with chronic
idiopathic (spontaneous) urticaria: a meta-analysis of ‘real-world’
evidence. JAMA Dermatol 2019; 155:29–38.
67 Kulthanan K, Chaweekulrat P, Komoltri C et al. Cyclosporine for
chronic spontaneous urticaria: a meta-analysis and systematic
review. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2018; 6:586–99.
68 Champion RH, Roberts SO, Carpenter RG et al. Urticaria and
angio-oedema. A review of 554 patients. Br J Dermatol 1969;
81:588–97.
69 Netchiporouk E, Sasseville D, Moreau L et al. Evaluating comorbidities,
natural history, and predictors of early resolution in a cohort of chil-
dren with chronic urticaria. JAMA Dermatol 2017; 153:1236–42.
70 Fitzsimons R, van der Poel LA, Thornhill W et al. Antihistamine
use in children. Arch Dis Child Educ Pract Ed 2015; 100:122–31.
71 Gabrielli S, Le M, Netchiporouk E et al. Chronic urticaria in chil-
dren
can
be
controlled
effectively
with
updosing
second-
generation antihistamines. J Am Acad Dermatol 2020; 82:1535–7.
72 Al-Shaikhly T, Rosenthal JA, Ayars AG et al. Omalizumab for
chronic urticaria in children younger than 12 years. Ann Allergy
Asthma Immunol 2019; 123:208–10.
73 Doshi DR, Weinberger MM. Experience with cyclosporine in chil-
dren with chronic idiopathic urticaria. Pediatr Dermatol 2009; 26:409–
13.
74 Giuliodori K, Ganzetti G, Campanati A et al. A non-responsive
chronic autoimmune urticaria in a 12-year-old autistic girl treated
with cyclosporin. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2009; 23:619–20.
75 Neverman L, Weinberger M. Treatment of chronic urticaria in
children with antihistamines and cyclosporine. J Allergy Clin Immunol
Pract 2014; 2:434–8.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix A Systematic review protocols and clinical ques-
tions.
Appendix B Forest plots for comparative studies.
Appendix C Linking the Evidence To the Recommendations
(LETR).
Appendix D GRADE evidence tables.
Appendix E Summary of included comparative studies.
Appendix F Narrative ﬁndings for noncomparative studies.
Appendix G PRISMA diagram – study selection.
Appendix H Papers excluded from quantitative analysis.
Appendix I AMSTAR 2 critical appraisal of the included sys-
tematic reviews.
Appendix J Methodology.
Appendix K Search strategy.
Appendix L Audit standards, data items and data collection
methodology.
Powerpoint S1 Journal Club Slide Set.
Appendix Author afﬁliations
1Shefﬁeld Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Shefﬁeld S10 2JF UK
2St John’s Institute of Dermatology Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation
Trust London SE1 9RT UK
3Clinical Experimental Sciences Faculty of Medicine University of Southamp-
ton Southampton General Hospital Southampton SO16 6YD UK
4Barts Health NHS Trust and Queen Mary University of London Medical
School London E1 1BB UK
5Patient representative
6Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust Pond St London NW3 2QG UK
7University of Manchester & Salford Royal Hospital Salford M6 8HD UK
8MRC Human Immunology Unit The MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular
Medicine University of Oxford NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre John
Radcliffe Hospital Oxford OX3 9DS UK
9University of Lincoln Lincoln LN6 7TS UK
10British Association of Dermatologists Willan House, 4 Fitzroy Square Lon-
don W1T 5HQ UK
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp398–413
BAD guidelines for chronic urticaria 2021, R.A. Sabroe et al. 413
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/3/398/6705777 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 17 ==========

of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 75 at Week 4
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9%
(n=265/349)
of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9%
(N=52)†
of biologic-naïve
and TNFi-IR PsA patients
achieved ACR 50 at
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6%
(n=135/267)
51.5%
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.
Please refer to the SmPC for further information.
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data).
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8%
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP,
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100,
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3.
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis.
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported.
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE,
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
