

========== PAGE 1 ==========

GUIDELINES
BJD
British Journal of Dermatology
British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for the
management of people with vitiligo 2021*
V. Eleftheriadou iD 1 R. Atkar,2 J. Batchelor,3 B. McDonald iD ,4 L. Novakovic,5,6 J.V. Patel,7 J. Ravenscroft iD ,8
E. Rush,7,9 D. Shah,10 R. Shah,11,12 L. Shaw,13 A.R. Thompson iD ,12,14 M. Hashme,15 L.S. Exton iD ,15
M.F. Mohd Mustapa iD ,15 L. Manounah iD 15 and the British Association of Dermatologists’
Clinical Standards Unit
Correspondence
Viktoria Eleftheriadou.
Emails: Viktoria.Eleftheriadou@nhs.net, guidelines@bad.org.uk
Accepted for publication
22 June 2021
Funding sources
None.
Conﬂicts of interest
V.E. is an investigator and trial development group member on the HI-Light Vitiligo Trial
(speciﬁc), lead investigator on the pilot HI-Light Vitiligo Trial, and a medical advisory
panel member of the Vitiligo Society UK. J.B. is chief investigator on the HI-Light Vitiligo
Trial (speciﬁc) and has an unpaid position on the medical advisory panel of the Vitiligo
Society (speciﬁc). B.M. has been an invited speaker for Genus Pharmaceuticals, and was
sponsored by AbbVie to attend an American Academy of Dermatology meeting (nonspeciﬁc)
and a hidradenitis suppurativa course (nonspeciﬁc). J.R. is an investigator on the HI-Light
Vitiligo Trial (speciﬁc). R.S. is a consultant for Dove and Unilever; is a spokesperson for a
LEO Pharma project; has received workshop fees from Novartis (nonspeciﬁc); has provided
consultancy to Pegasus, LEO Pharma and Exorex (nonspeciﬁc); is an advisor to the
National Eczema Society (nonspeciﬁc); and is a clinical psychologist for the Psychoderma-
tology UK executive committee (speciﬁc). A.R.T. has received an honorarium from Craw-
ford for presenting at an event relating to psoriasis and eczema (nonspeciﬁc); is a trustee for
Changing Faces (nonspeciﬁc); is an unpaid member of the UK Vitiligo scientiﬁc advisory
board (speciﬁc); and previously supported the Vitiligo Support and Awareness Foundation
on a volunteer basis (speciﬁc). R.A., L.N., J.V.P., E.R., D.S., L.S., M.H., L.S.E.,
M.F.M.M. and L.M. declare they have no conﬂicts of interest.
Produced in 2008 by the British Association of Dermatologists. Reviewed and updated
2021.
This is an updated guideline prepared for the British Association of Dermatologists
(BAD) Clinical Standards Unit, which includes the Therapy & Guidelines subcommit-
tee. Members of the Clinical Standards Unit who have been involved are: N.J. Levell
(Chair, Therapy & Guidelines subcommittee), B. McDonald, S.L. Chua, G. Petrof, P.
Laws, L. Solman, H. Frow, A. Daunton, I. Nasr, M. Hashme (Information Scientist),
L.S. Exton (Senior BAD Guideline Research Fellow), L. Manounah (BAD Guideline
Research Fellow), A. Constantin (BAD Guideline Research Fellow) and M.F. Mohd
Mustapa (Director of Clinical Standards).
DOI 10.1111/bjd.20596
NICE has renewed accreditation of the process used by the British
Association of Dermatologists to produce clinical guidelines. The
renewed accreditation is valid until 31 May 2026 and applies to
guidance produced using the processes described in the updated guid-
ance for writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical
guideline - the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. The
original accreditation term began on 12 May 2010. More informa-
tion on accreditation can be viewed at www.nice.org.uk/accreditation.
*Plain language summary available online
Linked Comment: K. Ezzedine and A.G. Pandya. Br J Dermatol
2022; 186:3–4.
1. Purpose and scope
The overall objective of the guideline is to provide up-to-date,
evidence-based recommendations for the management of viti-
ligo. The document aims to:
•
offer an appraisal of all relevant literature up to May
2019, focusing on any key developments
•
address important, practical clinical questions relating to
the primary guideline objective
•
provide guideline recommendations and if appropriate
research recommendations.
The guideline is presented as a detailed review with high-
lighted recommendations for practical use in both primary
care and in a dermatology clinic in secondary care, in addition
to an updated patient information leaﬂet [PIL; available on the
British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) website].1
1.1 Exclusions
The
guideline
does
not
cover
diagnosis
of
vitiligo
or
leukotrichia (piebaldism).
Nearly all the evidence supporting the recommendations
relates to studies in adults. The Guideline Development Group
(GDG) is aware that the onset of vitiligo can occur before adult-
hood; however, due to the paucity of high-certainty evidence
relating to vitiligo in those younger than 18 years of age, there
are no speciﬁc recommendations that apply to children and
young people. Please also refer to section 5.7, on the manage-
ment of children and young people, for further clariﬁcations.
2. Methodology
This set of guidelines has been developed using the BAD’s rec-
ommended methodology,2 with reference to the AGREE II
instrument (www.agreetrust.org)3 and GRADE (www.grade
workinggroup.org) (Appendix L; see Supporting Information).
Recommendations were developed for implementation in the
UK National Health Service (NHS).
The GDG consisted of seven consultant dermatologists,
one
dermatology
specialist
registrar,
two
clinical
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
18
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 2 ==========

psychologists, two patient representatives and a technical
team (consisting of an information scientist, two guideline
research fellows and a project manager providing method-
ological and technical support). The group established sev-
eral clinical questions pertinent to the scope of the guideline
and a set of outcome measures of importance to patients,
ranked
by
the
patient
representatives
according
to
the
GRADE methodology (see section 2.1; and Appendix A; see
Supporting Information).
A systematic literature search of the PubMed, MEDLINE,
Embase, Cochrane and AMED databases was conducted to
identify key articles on vitiligo from January 2007 to May
2019 (Appendix L). Studies included in the previous iteration
of the guideline were evaluated for inclusion. The search
terms and strategies are detailed in Appendix M (see Support-
ing Information). Additional references relevant to the topic
were also isolated from citations in the reviewed literature.
Data extraction and critical appraisal, data synthesis, evidence
summaries, lists of excluded studies and the PRISMA diagram
were prepared by the technical team. Evidence from the
included studies was graded according to the GRADE system
(high, moderate, low or very low certainty).
The recommendations are based on evidence drawn from sys-
tematic reviews of the literature pertaining to the clinical ques-
tions identiﬁed. The Supporting Information contains the
summary of ﬁndings with forest plots (Appendix B), tables
Linking the Evidence To the Recommendations (Appendix C),
GRADE evidence proﬁles indicating the certainty of evidence
(Appendix
D),
a
summary
of
the
included
studies
(Appendix E), comparative studies without data in an extracta-
ble format (Appendix F), within-patient studies (Appendix G),
noncomparative studies (Appendix H), the PRISMA ﬂow dia-
gram (Appendix I), critical appraisal of systematic reviews using
AMSTAR 2 (Appendix J) and a list of studies excluded from
quantitative analysis (Appendix K). The strength of recommen-
dation is expressed by the wording and symbols shown in
Table 1.
2.1 Clinical questions and outcomes
The GDG established a number of clinical questions pertinent
to the scope of the guideline; see Appendix A for the full
review protocol. The GDG also established two sets of out-
come measures of importance to patients (treatment), which
were agreed and ranked according to the GRADE methodology
by the patient representatives.4 Data on the outcome measures
were extracted from the included studies (Appendix E). The
proposed outcomes were in agreement with the core out-
comes set, which was developed based on international con-
sensus.5 Outcomes ranked 7, 8 and 9 are critical for decision
making; those ranked 4, 5 and 6 are important, but not criti-
cal for decision making; and those ranked 3, 2 and 1 are the
least important for decision making.
Q1. In people with vitiligo, what are the clinical effectiveness
and safety of interventions, including active therapies, com-
pared with each other or placebo or in combination with
other interventions? These interventions included:
•
topicals, for example corticosteroids, vitamin D analogues
and calcineurin inhibitors
•
systemics
•
light, for example narrowband ultraviolet B (NB-UVB), pso-
ralen–ultraviolet A (PUVA) and PUVAsol (using sunlight)
•
laser, for example excimer laser
•
surgical
•
psychological
•
complementary.
Critical
•
Change in psychological wellbeing (e.g. signs of depres-
sion or anxiety) (9)
•
Repigmentation ≥75% (9)
•
Patient rating of appearance of vitiligo (patient global
assessment, colour matching, cosmetic acceptability) (9)
•
Harms of treatment (8)
•
Quality of life (7)
Table 1 Strength of recommendation ratings
Strength
Wording
Symbol
Deﬁnition
Strong recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Offer’ (or similar, e.g. ‘use’,
‘provide’, ‘take’, ‘investigate’
etc.)
↑↑
Beneﬁts of the intervention outweigh the risks; most patients
would choose the intervention while only a small proportion
would not; for clinicians, most of their patients would receive
the intervention; for policymakers, it would be a useful
performance indicator
Weak recommendation for
the use of an intervention
‘Consider’
↑
Risks and beneﬁts of the intervention are ﬁnely balanced; many
patients would choose the intervention, but many would not;
clinicians would need to consider the pros and cons for the
patient in the context of the evidence; for policymakers it would
be a poor performance indicator where variability in
practice is expected
No recommendation
Θ
Insufﬁcient evidence to support any recommendation
Strong recommendation against
the use of an intervention
‘Do not offer’
↓↓
Risks of the intervention outweigh the beneﬁts; most patients
would not choose the intervention while only a small proportion
would; for clinicians, most of their patients would not
receive the intervention
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 19
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 3 ==========

Important
•
Repigmentation ≥50% (6)
•
Cessation of spreading of vitiligo (6)
•
Maintenance of gained repigmentation (6)
•
Tolerability and burden of treatment (5)
Q2. In people with vitiligo, what are the clinical effectiveness
and safety of one combination therapy compared with another
combination therapy?
Critical
•
Change in psychological wellbeing (e.g. signs of depres-
sion or anxiety) (9)
•
Repigmentation ≥75% (9)
•
Patient rating of appearance of vitiligo (patient global
assessment, colour matching, cosmetic acceptability) (9)
•
Harms of treatment (8)
•
Quality of life (7)
Important
•
Repigmentation ≥50% (6)
•
Cessation of spreading of vitiligo (6)
•
Maintenance of gained repigmentation (6)
•
Tolerability and burden of treatment (5)
Q3. In people with vitiligo, what is the clinical effectiveness of
skin camouﬂage compared with placebo, other interventions or
a combination of skin camouﬂage plus other active therapies?
Critical
•
Change in psychological wellbeing (e.g. signs of depres-
sion or anxiety) (9)
•
Patient rating of appearance of vitiligo (patient global
assessment, colour matching, cosmetic acceptability) (9)
•
Harms of treatment (8)
•
Quality of life (7)
Important
•
Tolerability and burden of treatment (5)
Q4. In people with vitiligo, what are the clinical effectiveness
and safety of depigmentation treatment compared with other
active treatments or placebo?
Critical
•
Change in psychological wellbeing (e.g. signs of depres-
sion or anxiety) (9)
•
Degree of depigmentation (9)
•
Patient rating of appearance (patient global assessment,
colour matching, cosmetic acceptability) (9)
•
Harms of treatment (8)
•
Quality of life (7)
Important
•
Risk of repigmentation (6)
•
Tolerability and burden of treatment (5)
Q5. In people with vitiligo who have received large doses of
PUVA (more than 150 treatment sessions) or narrowband
UVB (more than 150 treatment sessions), what is the risk of
developing premalignant or malignant skin changes compared
with people who have not received light therapies, and which
individuals are at particular risk?
Critical
•
Melanoma (9)
•
Squamous cell carcinoma (9)
Important
•
Basal cell carcinoma (6)
•
Other skin cancers (6)
•
Intraepidermal carcinoma (Bowen disease: squamous cell
carcinoma in situ) (5)
Less important
•
Actinic keratosis (3)
3. Summary of recommendations
The following recommendations and ratings were agreed
upon unanimously by the core members of the GDG and
patient representatives. For further information on the word-
ing used for recommendations and strength of recommenda-
tion ratings see section 2.0. The GDG is aware of the lack of
high-certainty evidence for some of these recommendations,
therefore strong recommendations with an asterisk (*) are
based on the available evidence, as well as consensus and spe-
cialist experience. Good practice point (GPP) recommenda-
tions (R) are derived from informal consensus.
General recommendations
R1 (GPP) Undertake a full history for people with vitiligo
including the site and type of vitiligo (segmental, nonseg-
mental), disease extent (affected body surface area), disease
stability, speed of onset, trigger factors, quality of life, psy-
chological and psychosocial impact, and personal and family
history of associated thyroid dysfunction or other autoimmune
disease.
R2 (GPP) Screen for antithyroid antibodies and thyroid func-
tion in people with vitiligo (including children) to identify
those at high risk of developing autoimmune thyroid disease.
R3 (GPP) Discuss with people with vitiligo (including chil-
dren) the psychosocial impact of living with the condition,
emphasizing the relationship between the skin and the mind.
R4 (GPP) Refer people with suspected vitiligo to a healthcare
professional experienced in managing the condition (sec-
ondary care specialist or general physicians with enhanced
role, GPwER) if:
•
the condition is progressing rapidly
•
there is diagnostic uncertainty
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
20 BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 4 ==========

•
the condition has a signiﬁcant psychosocial impact, or
•
the condition is not responding to topical treatment.
R5 (↑↑) Assess* and monitor the quality of life and level of
psychological distress associated with living with vitiligo.
Assessment tools that can be used include Patient Health Ques-
tionnaire-4 (PHQ-4),6 Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-
9),7 Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 (GAD7)8 and Dermatol-
ogy Life Quality Index (DLQI),9 and more speciﬁcally the Viti-
ligo Impact Patient Scale (VIPs)10 or the vitiligo-speciﬁc
quality-of-life instrument (VitiQoL).11
R6 (GPP) Provide people with vitiligo (including children)
with a patient information leaﬂet on the condition and pre-
scribed treatments (e.g. British Association of Dermatologists
patient information leaﬂets).1
R7 (GPP) Consider measuring serum vitamin D levels in peo-
ple with vitiligo who are avoiding all sun exposure. If levels
are reduced or deﬁcient, advise that they may wish to consider
taking supplementary vitamin D3 (10–25 micrograms per
day) and increasing their intake of foods high in vitamin D,
such as oily ﬁsh, eggs, meat, fortiﬁed margarines and cereals.
R8 (GPP) Monitor the skin of people with vitiligo for treatment
response (or rapid progression) via medical photography (digital
imaging) taken at the beginning of treatment and at regular inter-
vals of approximately 3–6 months. Alternatively, body surface
area (BSA) and areas affected by vitiligo should be documented,
or patients could use personal devices to take photographs if
medical photography is not available or is not practical. Please
refer to the vitiligo calculator (www.vitiligo-calculator.com).
R9 (GPP) Offer sunscreen with 4-star or 5-star UVA rating
and sun protection factor 50 to people with vitiligo, applied
to affected patches and surrounding skin before going out-
doors into the sun.
Topical therapies
R10 (↑↑) Offer a potent or very potent topical corticosteroid
once daily, to minimize potential side-effects, to people with
vitiligo as the ﬁrst-line treatment in primary or secondary
care, avoiding the periocular area.
R11 (GPP) Discuss with people with vitiligo the amount of
topical corticosteroids to be used, the site of application, and
the safe use of a potent or very potent topical steroid when
used correctly.
R12 (↑) Consider topical tacrolimus 01% ointment twice
daily in people with facial vitiligo as an alternative to potent
or very potent topical corticosteroids.
R13 (↑) Consider topical tacrolimus 01% ointment twice
daily under occlusion on photoexposed areas only in people
with nonfacial vitiligo as an alternative to potent or very
potent topical corticosteroids.
R14 (GPP) Consider an intermittent regimen of once-daily
application of potent or very potent topical corticosteroids
with or without topical calcineurin inhibitors (more evidence
for tacrolimus), factoring the risks and beneﬁts, in people
with vitiligo especially in areas with thinner skin, for example
the periocular region, genital area and skin ﬂexures. Examples
of intermittent regimens would include:
•
one week of potent or very potent corticosteroids and at
least 1 week off, or
•
one week of potent or very potent topical corticosteroids
alternating with ≥1 week of topical calcineurin inhibitor.
Topical corticosteroids could be used for longer than 1 week
in the intermittent regimen, after consideration of the risks
and beneﬁts.
R15 (GPP) Reassess the use of topical treatments (R10–R14)
every 3–6 months in people with vitiligo to check for
improvement. The use of periodic medical photographs may
help assess these changes.
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend topical vitamin
D analogues in people with vitiligo.
Depigmentation therapies
R16 (GPP) Consider depigmentation therapies in people with
extensive vitiligo on visible sites, in whom the condition is hav-
ing a negative psychological impact. This should be done after
adequate psychological assessment and/or intervention. Please
refer to the Supporting Information document for further details.
Systemic therapies
R17 (↑) Consider oral betamethasone 01 mg kg1 twice
weekly on two consecutive days for 3 months followed by
tapering of the dose by 1 mg per month for a further
3 months in combination with NB-UVB in people with
rapidly progressive vitiligo to arrest activity of the disease,
after careful consideration of the risks and beneﬁts (see R18,
and Table 2 for deﬁnition of rapidly progressive vitiligo).
R18 (GPP) Consider an equivalent dose of alternative oral
corticosteroids in people with rapidly progressive vitiligo if
betamethasone is not available.
R19 (↓↓) Do not offer azathioprine in combination with
PUVA (or NB-UVB) to people with vitiligo, due to the risk of
malignancy.
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend any currently
available systemic treatments as monotherapy for people with
stable vitiligo. However, there is some evidence for their use
in combination with other treatments for rapidly progressive
vitiligo (see R17 and R18, and Table 2 for the deﬁnition of
rapidly progressive vitiligo).
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend minocycline,
methotrexate or tofacitinib for people with vitiligo.
Light and laser monotherapy and combination therapies
R20 (↑↑) Offer NB-UVB (whole body or localized, e.g. home
based handheld) as ﬁrst-line phototherapy to people with viti-
ligo who have an inadequate response to topical therapy and/
or who have extensive or progressive disease. As a prolonged
course is generally required, discuss the risk-beneﬁt ratio,
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 21
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 5 ==========

particularly for children.§ This may be combined with topical
calcineurin inhibitor† (more evidence for tacrolimus) or
potent topical corticosteroid,‡ for localized sites. Counsel
patients on the signiﬁcant risk of loss of response upon treat-
ment cessation.
[§There is lack of data on the skin cancer risk for high
cumulative exposures in children with less deeply pigmented
skin (Fitzpatrick skin types I–III), hence the risk-beneﬁt ratio
needs to be carefully considered. †Prior to combination NB-
UVB and topical tacrolimus treatment, advise patients that
there is a theoretical increased risk of skin cancer with this
combination of treatment. A shared decision should be made
with the person with vitiligo, taking into account other alter-
natives, the individual’s personal and family history of skin
cancer risk and the impact of the vitiligo. ‡The evidence for
potent topical corticosteroid is limited. Prior to this combina-
tion, consider the risk–beneﬁt ratio of the prolonged use of
potent topical corticosteroid.]
R21 (GPP) Inform people with vitiligo who are eligible for
NB-UVB therapy of the requirements (depending on local pro-
tocols: a pretherapy assessment, medical photographs taken
prior to and during follow-ups at 3–6 months, two to three
sessions weekly possibly for up to 1 year), and the likely
response depending on the affected anatomical site (e.g. the
face and trunk usually achieve better repigmentation than acral
sites). Alternatively, body surface area (BSA) and areas affected
by vitiligo should be documented, or patients could use per-
sonal devices to take photographs if medical photography is
not available or not practical. Please refer to the vitiligo calcu-
lator (www.vitiligo-calculator.com).
R22 (↑) Only consider PUVA or PUVAsol in adults with vitiligo
if treatment with NB-UVB is unavailable or has been ineffective.
For contraindications refer to the BAD PUVA guidelines 201612
R23 (↑) Consider excimer laser or light in people with local-
ized vitiligo in combination with topical calcineurin inhibi-
tors (more evidence for tacrolimus). Prior to treatment, advise
patients that there is a theoretical increased risk of skin cancer
with this combination of treatment. This treatment is not
widely available on the NHS, but is available in a limited
number of centres with a specialist interest.
R24 (↑) Consider CO2 laser in combination with 5-ﬂuo-
rouracil in adults with nonsegmental vitiligo on the hands
and feet if other treatments have been ineffective (apply 5-ﬂu-
orouracil once daily for 7 days per month for 5 months; CO2
laser treatments once a month for 5 months). This treatment
is not widely available on the NHS, but can be accessed in a
limited number of centres with a specialist interest.
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend combination
treatment of potent or very potent topical steroid with NB-
UVB plus CO2 laser for people with vitiligo.
Surgical therapies
R25 (↑) Consider cellular grafting, for example blister grafting
or cell suspension, in people with stable, segmental or non-
segmental vitiligo that is unresponsive to other treatments,
and who remain distressed by the condition (see Table 2 for
deﬁnition of stable vitiligo). This treatment is not widely
available on the NHS, but only in a limited number of centres
with a specialist interest.
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend mini-punch
grafting in people with vitiligo.
Psychological therapies
R26 (↑↑) Offer* information on self-help (e.g. leaﬂets, books,
websites, apps) to people with vitiligo with mild psychologi-
cal distress.
R27 (↑↑) Offer* referral to psychological services for group or/
and individual cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to people
with vitiligo with moderate-to-severe psychological distress.
Skin camouﬂage therapies
R28 (↑) Consider a skin camouﬂage consultation in people
with vitiligo who would like to explore this option.
Complementary therapies
Θ There is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend a speciﬁc com-
plementary therapy for people with vitiligo.
Table 2 Deﬁnition of disease stability in vitiligo
Vitiligo (NSV and SV)
Deﬁnition
Recommendations
Stable
The following criteria should be met:a
No new lesions developing within the last 12 months
Lack of progression of old lesions within the
last 12 months
aAssessment of overall stability is inaccurate and
unreliable, whereas individual lesion stability
is more reliable.
Ideally, stability should be assessed using a patient
self-reporting, clinical scoring system (e.g. VASI or
VETF) and serial digital imaging of speciﬁc lesions
Progressive
New lesions developing or old vitiliginous lesions
progressing within the last 12 monthsa
Rapidly progressive
No international consensus exists; abrupt deterioration
in developing new lesions or increase in size of old lesions
Regressive
Spontaneous repigmentation of existing vitiliginous lesions
Adapted from the revised classiﬁcation of vitiligo: the Vitiligo Global Issues Consensus Conference.17 NSV, nonsegmental vitiligo; SV, seg-
mental vitiligo; VASI, Vitiligo Area Scoring Index; VETF, Vitiligo European Task Force.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
22 BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 6 ==========

Future research recommendations
FRR1 A national registry for people with vitiligo undergoing
systemic or light therapy to identify outcomes and safety.
FRR2 A prospective, randomized controlled trial evaluating
the safety and efﬁcacy of topical tacrolimus combined with
NB-UVB, compared with commonly used interventions.
FRR3 A prospective, randomized controlled trial evaluating
the safety and efﬁcacy of topical 5-ﬂuorouracil compared with
commonly used interventions in adults with vitiligo.
FRR4 Prospective, randomized controlled trials to evaluate the
safety and efﬁcacy of oral Janus kinase inhibitors, alone or in
combination, compared with commonly used interventions in
people with vitiligo.
FRR5 Prospective, randomized controlled trials to evaluate the
safety and efﬁcacy of topical Janus kinase inhibitors, alone or
in combination, compared with commonly used interventions
in people with vitiligo.
FRR6 Prospective, randomized controlled trials evaluating the
safety and efﬁcacy of CO2 laser for vitiligo compared with
commonly used interventions in adults with vitiligo.
FRR7 Prospective, randomized controlled trials evaluating the
safety and efﬁcacy of afamelanotide compared with commonly
used interventions in adults with vitiligo.
FRR8 Prospective, randomized controlled trials evaluating the
effectiveness of psychological interventions in people with vitiligo.
FRR9 A cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for people
with vitiligo within a UK healthcare setting.
4. Algorithm
The recommendations, discussions in the Linking the Evidence
To the Recommendations (Appendix C) and consensus special-
ist experience were used to inform the algorithm and pathway
of care (Figure 1).
5 Background
5.1 Deﬁnition
Vitiligo is an acquired chronic depigmentation disorder,
which results in a loss of functional melanocytes. Vitiligo
affects 05–1% of the population worldwide,13 although a
higher incidence of 88% has been reported in India.14
Adults and children are equally affected and there is no
predilection for sex. Almost 50% of people with vitiligo pre-
sent before the age of 20 years, and nearly 70–80% before
the age of 30 years.15
5.2 Classiﬁcation
The most common form, nonsegmental vitiligo, is symmetrical.
It can initially have an acrofacial distribution, but may spread to
involve the entire body surface. In contrast, segmental vitiligo is
unilateral and characterized by rapid stabilization (Table 3).16
The term ‘vitiligo’ can be used as an umbrella term for all
nonsegmental forms of vitiligo.17,18 Classiﬁcation and disease sta-
bility in vitiligo are important prognostic factors (Table 2).
Currently, there is no consensus deﬁnition for ‘rapidly pro-
gressive’ vitiligo.
Where vitiligo is classical, the diagnosis is straightforward
and can be made in primary care; however, challenging cases
require assessment by a dermatologist.19 Several depigmenting
or hypopigmenting disorders should be considered in the dif-
ferential diagnosis of vitiligo (Table 4).
5.3 Assessment, monitoring and early treatment
During the initial consultation with a patient with vitiligo, it
is important to document the following:
•
type of vitiligo
•
extent of disease (affected body surface area)
•
skin phototype
•
age of onset of disease
•
disease stability
•
type and duration of previous treatments
•
history of autoimmune diseases.
The clinical assessment of vitiligo involves an estimation of
the affected body surface area. Recently, the global Vitiligo
Extent Score (VES) was introduced. This user-friendly depig-
mentation measurement instrument allows clinicians to moni-
tor accurately and easily the affected body surface area in a
standardized way.20 A vitiligo calculator (online version of
VES) is a freely available, useful online tool, which utilizes
pictures that reﬂect the extent of the vitiligo lesions (www.viti
ligo-calculator.com). Other scores have also been used, such
as the Vitiligo Area Scoring Index (VASI)21 and the Vitiligo
European Task Force (VETF) scoring system.16
Digital photographs (or if available UV photographs) taken
on the initial consultation provide a useful benchmark for
monitoring disease progression and treatment effectiveness.
During treatment, digital photographs, extent of vitiligo,
quality of life and level of psychological distress should ideally
be evaluated and recorded every 3–4 months. In a clinical set-
ting, treatment response at 3–4 months is usually an indicator
to continue treatment.19
In addition, some evidence exists that recent-onset vitiligi-
nous lesions respond better to treatments such as topical tacro-
limus and phototherapy. Early treatment of generalized vitiligo
including acral areas may enhance the chance of successful
repigmentation.22–24
5.4 Psychological and quality-of-life impact
People living with vitiligo report experiencing stigmatization,
including prejudice, and in some cases actual discrimina-
tion.25–27 Learning to deal with such reactions takes time and
is emotionally demanding. Perhaps unsurprisingly, high levels
of social anxiety have been reported.28 Studies have shown
that people with vitiligo exhibit social anxiety and adopt cop-
ing
techniques
such
as
concealment
and/or
avoidance.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 23
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 7 ==========

Figure 1 Management pathway for people with vitiligo. 5-FU, 5-ﬂuorouracil; BD, twice daily; BSA, body surface area; CBT, cognitive behavioural
therapy; DLQI, Dermatology Life Quality Index9; GAD7, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 78; PHQ-4, Patient Health Questionnaire-46; PHQ-9, Patient
Health Questionnaire-97; NB-UVB, narrowband ultraviolet B; PIL, patient information leaﬂet; QoL, quality of life; SPF, sun protection factor; UVA,
ultraviolet A; VIPs, Vitiligo Impact Scale10; VitiQoL, vitiligo-speciﬁc quality-of-life instrument.11
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
24 BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 8 ==========

Perceived stigma was signiﬁcantly related to the extent to
which vitiligo affected social activities and distress.29
A recent systematic review and meta-analysis reported
pooled prevalences of anxiety and depression using depres-
sion-speciﬁc and anxiety-speciﬁc questionnaires of 029 [95%
conﬁdence interval (CI) 021–038] and 033 (95% CI 018–
049), respectively. The prevalence was found to be lower for
clinically diagnosed depression 021 (95% CI 015–028) and
anxiety 015 (95% CI 006–024).30 An earlier systematic
review also commented on the negative impact on quality of
life, increased levels of self-consciousness, lower self-esteem
and the potential negative impact on intimacy and sexual
functioning.31
From the evidence, we recommend routine screening for
quality of life and psychosocial distress, referral for psycholog-
ical therapy, or recommending sources of self-help when nec-
essary (see R1, R3 and R5).
5.5 Associations: vitiligo, autoimmunity and thyroid
disease
Autoimmunity is considered a contributor to the pathogenesis
of vitiligo. Vitiligo has been shown to be associated with other
autoimmune diseases such as thyroid disorders, pernicious
anaemia, Addison disease, atopic dermatitis and diabetes,
among others.32,33
Studies have reported that the incidence of thyroid disease is
up to 52% in patients with vitiligo, and that 3–90% of patients
with vitiligo have antithyroid antibodies. Patients with vitiligo
were at increased risk of Graves disease, Hashimoto thyroiditis
and thyroid cancer compared with the general population.34
A systematic review of studies on the prevalence of thyroid
disease in patients with vitiligo found high rates of thyroid
disease,
autoimmune
thyroid
disease
and
thyroid-speciﬁc
autoantibodies: 151%, 143% and 208%, respectively. The
risk for patients with vitiligo to develop (any) thyroid diseases
is almost twice as high than in patients without vitiligo. The
risk for patients with vitiligo to develop autoimmune thyroid
disease is even higher (25-fold) compared with patients with-
out vitiligo, and the risk of elevated thyroid antibodies in
patients with vitiligo is more than ﬁvefold higher than in
patients without vitiligo.35
A large, recently conducted systematic review and meta-
analysis assessing the prevalence of thyroid disorders in
patients with vitiligo showed that six thyroid disorders (sub-
clinical hyperthyroidism, overt hyperthyroidism, subclinical
hypothyroidism, overt hypothyroidism, Graves disease and
Hashimoto thyroiditis) have various prevalences in vitiligo.
The highest prevalence was in subclinical hypothyroidism, and
the lowest was in subclinical hyperthyroidism or Graves dis-
ease. The authors suggested that screening patients with viti-
ligo for thyroid disorders seems reasonable, in an effort to
detect potential thyroid diseases or to assess the risk of future
onset.36
Another study of 363 paediatric patients found signiﬁcant
incidence of thyroid dysfunction in paediatric patients with
nonsegmental vitiligo and concluded that vitiligo usually
appears before the development of thyroid disease.37
From this evidence we suggest that routine screening of
antithyroid antibodies and thyroid function should be per-
formed in all patients with vitiligo (for affected children if it
is appropriate to their age) to identify those at high risk of
developing autoimmune thyroid disease (see R2).
5.6 Vitiligo and skin cancer
Recently, it has been shown that vitiligo has an inverse relation-
ship with melanoma, which means that people with vitiligo are
less likely to develop melanoma.38 A recent systematic review
and meta-analysis looking into the risk of skin cancer in people
Table 3 Classiﬁcation of vitiligo
Subtype
Deﬁnition
Vitiligo/NSV
Acrofacial
Involved sites are usually limited to face, head, hands, feet
Generalized
Acrofacial vitiligo may later progress to include other body sites
Universal
Most extensive form of vitiligo. This term is used when depigmentation
covers > 80% of total body surface
Mucosal
Usually refers to the involvement of oral and/or genital mucosae
Mixed
Concomitant occurrence of NSV and segmental vitiligo
Rare variants
Follicular
Vitiligo minor (incomplete defect in pigmentation with a pale skin
colour compared with healthy skin)
Vitiligo punctata (1–15-mm sharply demarcated macules)
Segmental vitiligo
Uni-, bi- or
plurisegmental
Presence of one or more depigmented macules distributed on one side of the body
Undetermined or
unclassiﬁed vitiligo
Focal
Small, isolated patch, which has not evolved into NSV after a period of at least 2 years
and does not ﬁt into a segmental distribution
Mucosal
One mucosal site in isolation
Adapted from the revised classiﬁcation of vitiligo: the Vitiligo Global Issues Consensus Conference.17 NSV, nonsegmental vitiligo.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 25
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 9 ==========

with vitiligo showed that compared with people without viti-
ligo, people with vitiligo had a signiﬁcantly lower risk of non-
melanoma skin cancer; the crude odds ratio (OR) was 029
(95% CI 014–058, I2 = 759%). The same pattern occurred
for melanoma, but the crude OR was not statistically signiﬁcant
(OR 052, 95% CI 015–178, I2 = 853%).39 Forest plots are
available on request to the corresponding author. This review
supports the current view that vitiligo may be protective of skin
cancer. This could be due to the genetic and autoimmune pro-
ﬁle of vitiligo, or the fact that patients with vitiligo are more
careful regarding sun protection than those without vitiligo.
However, this review was limited by the small number of
included studies and high heterogeneity due to methodological
and clinical differences between the included studies. Once
more appropriate research has been conducted in this ﬁeld,
clinicians may be able to reassure people with vitiligo that they
are not at increased risk of skin cancer.
5.7 Children and young people
Childhood-onset vitiligo is common and affects around 30%
of patients with vitiligo. Research showed that the majority of
paediatric patients with vitiligo (89%) had disease onset after
the age of 4 years.40 In most aspects, vitiligo is very similar in
children and adolescents compared with adults, including
treatment approaches. However, there are a few important
management aspects to consider when seeing paediatric and
adolescent patients.
1
There is very little published evidence for treatment inter-
ventions in children aged under 12 years.
2
The impact of vitiligo on children will depend on age
and developmental level. Treatment decisions, including
deciding not to actively treat, should take into account
the child’s own level of concern about the condition and
its impact on them. Potential future impact may also be
considered.
3
Phototherapy. Excess UV exposure may have different bio-
logical effects in young children compared with adults,
with childhood sunburn episodes increasing the risk of
melanoma.41–43 More caution should be exercised in rec-
ommending phototherapy treatment in children. Pho-
totherapy is logistically difﬁcult in young children and is
generally not offered to children under the age of 5 years.
4
Topical
corticosteroid
treatment.
Young
children
are
more at risk from skin atrophy, especially on delicate
areas such as the face. Nonsteroid options such as tacro-
limus should be considered ﬁrst line alongside potent
topical corticosteroids in children. Topical potent and
very potent steroids are more likely to have a systemic
effect due to the increased surface-area-to-volume ratio
in young children, and caution should be exercised
regarding their use, especially in generalized widespread
disease.
5
Oral corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroid treatment can
affect growth in children, and more caution should be
exercised when recommending their use in children.
Table 4 Differential diagnosis of vitiligo
Inherited or genetic-induced hypomelanoses
Piebaldism
Tuberous sclerosis
Hypomelanosis of Ito
Waardenburg syndrome
Hermansky–Pudlak syndrome
Griscelli syndrome
Menkes syndrome
Postinﬂammatory hypomelanoses
Atopic eczema
Psoriasis
Lichen planus
Pityriasis alba
Genital or extragenital lichen sclerosus
Allergic contact dermatitis
Paramalignant hypomelanoses
Mycosis fungoides
Melanoma-associated depigmentation
Occupational or drug-induced hypomelanoses
Potent topical steroids
Imiquimod
Phenolic derivatives
Systemic drugs (chloroquine, physostigmine, imatinib)
Melasma
Normal skin contrasting with melasma might appear hypopigmented
Post-traumatic leucoderma
Deep burns
Post-scars
Para-infectious hypopigmentation
Tinea versicolor
Leprosy
Leishmaniasis
Nevus depigmentosus
Congenital or detectable in the ﬁrst year of life
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
26 BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 10 ==========

6. Recommended audit points
In the last 20 consecutive people with vitiligo, is there clear
documentation of the following:
•
The extent of their disease and quality of life recorded at
initial assessment?
•
The type of vitiligo, disease stability and skin type
recorded at initial assessment?
•
A psychological assessment following referral to secondary
care?
•
Thyroid antibody screening?
•
A potent topical corticosteroid being offered to treat the
condition (if clinically appropriate)?
The audit recommendation of 20 cases per department is to
reduce variation in the results due to a single patient and
allow benchmarking between different units (Appendix N; see
Supporting Information). However, departments unable to
achieve this recommendation may choose to audit all cases
seen in the preceding 12 months.
7. Stakeholder involvement and peer review
The draft document and Supporting Information were made
available to the BAD membership, the British Photodermatol-
ogy Group (BPG) membership, the British Dermatological
Nursing Group (BDNG), the Primary Care Dermatological
Society (PCDS), the British Society for Paediatric Dermatology
(BSPD), the British Society for Dermatological Surgery (BSDS),
the Royal Pharmaceutical Society and the Vitiligo Society for
comments, which were actively considered by the GDG. Fol-
lowing further review, the ﬁnalized version was sent for peer
review by the Clinical Standards Unit of the BAD, made up of
the Therapy & Guidelines subcommittee, prior to submission
for publication.
8. Limitations of the guideline
This document has been prepared on behalf of the BAD and
is based on the best data available when the document was
prepared. It is recognized that under certain conditions it may
be necessary to deviate from the guidelines and that the
results of future studies may require some of the recommen-
dations herein to be changed. Additionally, it is acknowledged
that the limited cost-effectiveness data in the context of the
UK healthcare setting may impact the availability of a given
therapy within the NHS, despite evidence of efﬁcacy. Failure
to adhere to these guidelines should not necessarily be consid-
ered negligent, nor should adherence to these recommenda-
tions constitute a defence against a claim of negligence.
Limiting the systematic review to English-language references
was a pragmatic decision but the authors recognize this may
exclude some important information published in other lan-
guages.
9. Plans for guideline revision
The proposed revision date for this set of recommendations is
scheduled for 2026; where necessary, important interim
changes will be updated on the BAD website.
Acknowledgments
We are very grateful to Dr Robert Dawe, Consultant Dermatol-
ogist at NHS Tayside, for his input on phototherapy treat-
ments for vitiligo; both patient representatives – Ms Emma
Rush and Mr Jeetesh Patel – for their input in formulating the
clinical question, ranking of the outcomes, reviewing the evi-
dence and preparing the subsequent draft guideline; and Miss
Alina Constantin (BAD Guideline Research Fellow) for assist-
ing with the ﬁnal stages; as well as those who commented on
the draft during the consultation period.
References
1 British Association of Dermatologists. Vitiligo. Patient information
leaﬂet. Available at: https://www.skinhealthinfo.org.uk/condition/
vitiligo (last accessed 6 July 2021).
2 Mohd Mustapa MF, Exton LS, Bell HK et al. Updated guidance for
writing a British Association of Dermatologists clinical guideline:
the adoption of the GRADE methodology 2016. Br J Dermatol 2017;
176:44–51.
3 Brouwers M, Kho ME, Browman GP et al. AGREE II: advancing
guideline development, reporting and evaluation in healthcare.
CMAJ 2010; 182:E839–42.
4 Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE et al. GRADE: an emerging consen-
sus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommenda-
tions. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6.
5 Eleftheriadou V, Thomas K, van Geel N et al. Developing core out-
come set for vitiligo clinical trials: international e-Delphi consen-
sus. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res 2015; 28:363–9.
6 L€owe B, Wahl I, Rose M. A 4-item measure of depression and
anxiety: validation and standardization of the Patient Health Ques-
tionnaire-4 (PHQ-4) in the general population. J Affect Disord 2010;
122:86–95.
7 Kroenke K, Spitzer RL, Williams JB. The PHQ-9: validity of a brief
depression severity measure. J Gen Intern Med 2001; 16:606–13.
8 Spitzer RL, Kroenke K, Williams JBW et al. A brief measure for
assessing generalized anxiety disorder: the GAD-7. Arch Intern Med
2006; 166:1092–7.
9 Finlay AY, Khan GK. Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) – a
simple practical measure for routine clinical use. Clin Exp Dermatol
1994; 19:210–16.
10 Salzes C, Abadie S, Seneschal J et al. The Vitiligo Impact Patient
Scale (VIPs): development and validation of a vitiligo burden
assessment tool. J Invest Dermatol 2016; 136:52–8.
11 Lilly E, Lu PD, Borovicka JH et al. Development and validation of a
vitiligo-speciﬁc quality-of-life instrument (VitiQoL). J Am Acad Der-
matol 2013; 69:e11–18.
12 Ling TC, Clayton TH, Crawley J et al. British Association of Derma-
tologists and British Photodermatology Group guidelines for the
safe and effective use of psoralen–ultraviolet A therapy 2015. Br J
Dermatol 2016; 174:24–55.
13 Whitton ME, Pinart M, Batchelor J et al. Interventions for vitiligo.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2015; 2:CD003263.
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 27
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 11 ==========

14 Behl PN, Bhatia RK. 400 cases of vitiligo. A clinico-therapeutic
analysis. Indian J Dermatol 1972; 17:51–6.
15 Sehgal VN, Srivastava G. Vitiligo: compendium of clinico-epidemi-
ological features. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2007; 73:149–56.
16 Ta€ıeb A, Picardo M. The deﬁnition and assessment of vitiligo: a
consensus report of the Vitiligo European Task Force. Pigment Cell
Res 2007; 20:27–35.
17 Ezzedine K, Lim HW, Suzuki T et al. Revised classiﬁcation/nomen-
clature of vitiligo and related issues: the Vitiligo Global Issues
Consensus Conference. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res 2012; 25:E1–13.
18 Ezzedine K, Eleftheriadou V, Whitton M et al. Vitiligo. Lancet 2015;
386:74–84.
19 Gawkrodger DJ, Ormerod AD, Shaw L et al. Guideline for the diag-
nosis and management of vitiligo. Br J Dermatol 2008; 159:1051–76.
20 van Geel N, Lommerts J, Bekkenk M et al. Development and valida-
tion of the Vitiligo Extent Score (VES): an international collabora-
tive initiative. J Invest Dermatol 2016; 136:978–84.
21 Hamzavi I, Jain H, McLean D et al. Parametric modeling of narrow-
band UV-B phototherapy for vitiligo using a novel quantitative tool:
the Vitiligo Area Scoring Index. Arch Dermatol 2004; 140:677–83.
22 Hallaji Z, Ghiasi M, Eisazadeh A et al. Evaluation of the effect of
disease duration in generalized vitiligo on its clinical response to
narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy. Photodermatol Photoimmunol
Photomed 2012; 28:115–19.
23 Lee DY, Kim CR, Lee JH et al. Recent onset vitiligo treated with
systemic corticosteroid and topical tacrolimus: need for early treat-
ment in vitiligo. J Dermatol 2010; 37:1057–9.
24 Lee DY, Kim CR, Lee JH. Recent onset vitiligo on acral areas trea-
ted with phototherapy: need of early treatment. Photodermatol Pho-
toimmunol Photomed 2010; 26:266–8.
25 Thompson AR, Clarke SA, Newell RJ et al. Vitiligo linked to
stigmatization in British South Asian women: a qualitative study
of the experiences of living with vitiligo. Br J Dermatol 2010;
163:481–6.
26 Thompson AR, Kent G, Smith JA. Living with vitiligo: dealing
with difference. Br J Health Psychol 2002; 7:213–25.
27 Ongenae K, Dierckxsens L, Brochez L et al. Quality of life and
stigmatization proﬁle in a cohort of vitiligo patients and effect of
the use of camouﬂage. Dermatology 2005; 210:279–85.
28 Shah R, Hunt J, Webb TL et al. Starting to develop self-help for
social anxiety associated with vitiligo: using clinical signiﬁcance to
measure the potential effectiveness of enhanced psychological self-
help. Br J Dermatol 2014; 171:332–7.
29 Kent G. Correlates of perceived stigma in vitiligo. Psychol Health
1999; 14:241–51.
30 Osinubi O, Grainge MJ, Hong L et al. The prevalence of psycho-
logical comorbidity in people with vitiligo: a systematic review
and meta-analysis. Br J Dermatol 2018; 178:863–78.
31 Ongenae K, Van Geel N, De Schepper S et al. Effect of vitiligo on
self-reported health-related quality of life. Br J Dermatol 2005;
152:1165–72.
32 Rezaei N, Gavalas NG, Weetman AP et al. Autoimmunity as an
aetiological factor in vitiligo. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 2007;
21:865–76.
33 Ezzedine K, Diallo A, Leaute-Labreze C et al. Pre- vs. post-pubertal
onset of vitiligo: multivariate analysis indicates atopic diathesis
association in pre-pubertal onset vitiligo. Br J Dermatol 2012;
167:490–5.
34 Bae JM, Jung HM, Hong BY et al. Phototherapy for vitiligo: a sys-
tematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Dermatol 2017; 153:666–74.
35 Vrijman C, Kroon MW, Limpens J et al. The prevalence of thyroid
disease in patients with vitiligo: a systematic review. Br J Dermatol
2012; 167:1224–35.
36 Yuan J, Sun C, Jiang S et al. The prevalence of thyroid disorders in
patients with vitiligo: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Front
Endocrinol (Lausanne) 2018; 9:803.
37 Yang Y, Lin X, Fu W et al. An approach to the correlation between
vitiligo and autoimmune thyroiditis in Chinese children. Clin Exp
Dermatol 2010; 35:706–10.
38 Spritz RA. The genetics of generalized vitiligo: autoimmune path-
ways and an inverse relationship with malignant melanoma. Genome
Med 2010; 2:78.
39 Ban L, Labbouz S, Grindlay D et al. Risk of skin cancer in people with viti-
ligo: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Dermatol 2018; 179:971–2.
40 Nicolaidou E, Antoniou C, Miniati A et al. Childhood- and later-
onset vitiligo have diverse epidemiologic and clinical characteris-
tics. J Am Acad Dermatol 2012; 66:954–8.
41 Noonan FP, Recio JA, Takayama H et al. Neonatal sunburn and
melanoma in mice. Nature 2001; 413:271–2.
42 Berneburg M, Surber C. Children and sun protection. Br J Dermatol
2009; 161 (Suppl. 3):33–9.
43 Kulichova D, Danova J, Kunte C et al. Risk factors for malignant
melanoma and preventive methods. Cutis 2014; 94:241–8.
Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix A Review protocol.
Appendix B Forest plots.
Appendix C Linking the Evidence To Recommendations.
Appendix D GRADE evidence tables.
Appendix E Summary of included comparative studies.
Appendix F Comparative studies with no extractable data.
Appendix G Narrative ﬁndings from within-patient studies.
Appendix H Narrative ﬁndings from noncomparative studies.
Appendix I PRISMA diagram: study selection.
Appendix J Critical appraisal of included systematic reviews:
AMSTAR 2.
Appendix K Papers excluded from quantitative analysis.
Appendix L Methodology.
Appendix M Search strategy.
Appendix N Audit standards, data items and data collection
methodology.
Powerpoint S1 Journal Club Slide Set.
Appendix Author afﬁliations
1Queen Elizabeth Hospital Mindelsohn Way Birmingham B15 2TH UK
2Addenbrooke’s Hospital Cambridge CB2 0QQ UK
3Centre for Evidence Based Dermatology University of Nottingham Notting-
ham NG7 2NR UK
4The Royal London Hospital Whitechapel Road, Whitechapel London E1 1FR
UK
5Queen Elizabeth Hospital Department of Dermatology Lewisham and Green-
wich NHS Trust London SE18 4QH UK
6St John’s Institute of Dermatology Department of Photodermatology Guy’s
and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust London SE1 9RT UK
7Patient representative
8Queens Medical Centre Nottingham NG7 2UH UK
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
28 BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 12 ==========

9Vitiligo Support UK London UK
10Amersham Hospital Amersham HP7 0JD UK
11Central & North West London NHS Trust London NW1 2PL UK
12British Psychological Society Leicester LE1 7DR UK
13Bristol Royal Inﬁrmary Bristol BS2 8HW UK
14South Wales Clinical Psychology Training Cardiff University Cardiff CF10
3AT UK
15British Association of Dermatologists Willan House London W1T 5HQ UK
© 2021 British Association of Dermatologists
British Journal of Dermatology (2022) 186, pp18–29
BAD guidelines for the management of people with vitiligo 2021, V. Eleftheriadou et al. 29
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/bjd/article/186/1/18/6593593 by guest on 06 May 2026


========== PAGE 13 ==========

of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 75 at Week 4
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
75.9%
(n=265/349)
of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 100 at 5 years3
76.9%
(N=52)†
of biologic-naïve
and TNFi-IR PsA patients
achieved ACR 50 at
Week 104/100, respectively‡1,4–6
of patients
with PsO achieved
PASI 100 at Week 16
(vs 1.2% placebo [n=1/86], p<0.0001)*,**2
68.2%
(n=238/349)
and
50.6%
(n=135/267)
51.5%
(n=222/431)
GB-BK-2500315 | July 2025
UCB Biopharma SRL, 2025. All rights reserved.
This promotional material has been created and funded by UCB Pharma Ltd and
is intended for healthcare professionals in the UK.
BIMZELX is indicated for the treatment of: moderate to severe plaque PsO in adults
who are candidates for systemic therapy; active PsA, alone or in combination
with methotrexate, in adults who have had an inadequate response, or who have
been intolerant, to one or more DMARDs; active nr-axSpA with objective signs of
inflammation as indicated by elevated CRP and/or MRI, in adults who have responded
inadequately, or are intolerant, to NSAIDs; active AS in adults who have responded
inadequately or are intolerant to conventional therapy; and active moderate to severe
HS (acne inversa) in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS
therapy.4
Prescribing information for United Kingdom click here.
Please refer to the SmPC for further information.
These data are from different clinical trials and cannot be directly compared.
Co-primary endpoints PASI 90 and IGA 0/1 at Week 16 were met.**Secondary endpoints. †N= mNRI, missing data
were imputed with mNRI (patients with missing data following treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy
or a TRAE were counted as non-responders; multiple imputation methodology was used for other missing data).
‡43.9% (n=189/431), and 43.4% (n=116/267) of biologic-naïve and TNFi-IR PsA patients achieved the primary
endpoint of ACR 50 at Week 16 in BE OPTIMAL and BE COMPLETE, respectively (vs 10.0% [n=28/281] and 6.8%
[n=9/133] placebo, p<0.0001); 54.5% (n=235/431) and 51.7% (n=138/267) maintained it at Week 52 (NRI).4–6 ​
ACR 50, ≥50% response in the American College of Rheumatology criteria; AS, ankylosing spondylitis; CRP,
C-reactive protein; DMARD, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HS, hidradenitis suppurativa; IGA, Investigator’s
Global Assessment; (m)NRI, (modified) non-responder imputation; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; nr-
axSpA, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; PASI 75/90/100,
≥75/90/100% improvement from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index; PsA, psoriatic arthritis; PsD, psoriatic
disease; PsO, psoriasis; TNFi-IR, tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitor – inadequate responder; TRAE, treatment-
related adverse event.
References: 1. Gordon KB, et al. Lancet. 2021;397(10273):475–486. 2. Blauvelt. 2025. AAD Presentation 62275. 3.
Mease PJ, et al. Rheumatol Ther. 2024;11(5):1363–1382. 4. BIMZELX SmPC. 5. Ritchlin CT, et al. Ann Rheum Dis.
2023;82(11):1404–1414. 6. Coates LC, et al. RMD Open. 2024;10(1):e003855. 7. Strober B, et al. AAD 2024;oral
presentation.​
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick
identification of new safety information. Adverse events should be reported.
Reporting forms and information can be found at www.yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk for
the UK. Adverse events should also be reported to UCB Pharma Ltd at
UCBCares.UK@UCB.com or 0800 2793177 for UK.
NO COMPROMISE,
JUST CLEARANCE
BIMZELX was well tolerated, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were: upper respiratory tract infections
and oral candidiasis. Other common reported adverse reactions include tinea infections, ear infections, herpes simplex
infections, oropharyngeal candidiasis, gastroenteritis, folliculitis, headache, rash, dermatitis, eczema, acne, injection site
reactions, fatigue, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection (including vulvovaginal candidiasis).4
Bimzelx®     (bimekizumab) offers
the opportunity for complete, fast,
and lasting skin clearance and
proven PsA efficacy 1–7
